id	title	abstract	keywords
6439	VULNERABILITY CHANGE IN COASTAL ZONES OF VIETNAM AND JAPAN	Preparing of adaptation strategy against global warming is one of the important issues. The purpose of paper is to show the typical effect of adaptation and early adaptation for reducing vulnerability in developed country and developing countries. The quantitative results of vulnerability assessments following trial scenarios of adaptations show that effect of early adaptation is strong in developing courtiers in case of good economy growth.	NA
634	Do gender differences lead to unequal access to climate adaptation strategies in an agrarian context? Perceptions from coastal Bangladesh	While people around the world are increasingly facing various climate-related stresses, women with limited resources in low income developing societies are often at a greater risk largely because of their pre-existing constraints on social, economic, political, and cultural resources and opportunities. In this paper, we investigate how gender differences influence farmers' access to various resources that are critical for local climate adaptation in coastal Bangladesh. As one of the most climate-vulnerable regions in not only the country but the world, coastal Bangladesh is experiencing a significant increase in sea level rise, tropical cyclones, storm surges, coastal flooding, coastal erosions as well as unpredictable rainfall patterns. All of these climate related stresses directly contribute to the region's increasing exposure to saltwater intrusion in coastal lands and freshwater sources. While a majority of the previous research has focused on community-based climate adaptation, there has been limited attention on how gender differences shape local farmers' climate adaptation strategies. Using mixed-methods research, this article highlights the ways in which male-headed and female-headed farming households have differential access to locally available adaptation resources along with associated constraints or opportunities for adaptation and disaster risk reduction strategies vary substantially. Our findings suggest female-headed farms are less likely to sell their farmland or migrate away in search of non-farm income due to normative gendered expectations and socio-cultural restrictions. Therefore, female farmers are forced to pursue in-place farming adaptation strategies with limited external resources while relying on informal social networks for weather and climate information.	climate adaptation; coastal bangladesh; gender differences; female-headed farming households; kalapara
656	Measuring local sea-level rise adaptation and adaptive capacity: A national survey in the United States	Sea-level rise (SLR) has increasingly manifested the need for adaptation in the United States (US) coastal areas. Few empirical studies have investigated the extent of local SLR adaptation and adaptive capacity on a national scale. To address this research gap, I conducted a national survey among 231 coastal localities in the US and obtained 86 individual copies of surveys, with a response rate of 37.2\%. I then employed multivariate regression models to examine the relationship between local actions and adaptive capacity while controlling for socioeconomic variations. Based on the survey results, I find that, at this nascent stage, the coastal localities are more actively investing in adaptation planning than actions. Among the adaptation actions, they generally preferred the protection and accommodation strategies to those of the managed retreat. Localities in this sample reported medium to low adaptive capacity, with leadership, funding, staff, and political environment being the weakest capacity elements. The regression results indicate that localities with higher adaptive capacity have been implementing more adaptation than those with limited capacity. This empirical research provides a first glance into local SLR adaptation and sheds light on the plausible pathways to building local adaptive capacity and improving coastal resilience through adaptation.	sea-level rise; adaptation planning; adaptive capacity; urban planning
392105	Impact of warming on sea level	Global warming could raise sea level by approximately a meter over the next century. Such a rise would flood about 7000 square miles in the United States - an area the size of Massachusetts. It would cover coastal wetlands and lowlands, erode beaches, threaten coastal communities, and increase the salinity of estuaries, aquifers, and wetlands. Coastal cities are likely to build expensive bulkheads, levees, and pumping stations for protection, while shorelines in sparsely developed areas would be allowed to retreat naturally. -from Author	barrier island;  beach;  coastal wetland;  global warming;  sea level, beaches--erosion;  floods;  ice--melting;  oceanography--sea level changes;  shore protection, global warming;  inundation;  saltwater intrusion, greenhouse effect
351770	Coastal stabilization practice in France	The expansion of coastal urban fronts, leisure ports and tourism in the course of the twentieth century has been the main driver of large-scale modification of the coastal zone in France. The development pressures generated by mass tourism and the economic boom of the 1960s have had their strongest effects in the Mediterranean, but pressures have also been important on the coast of Normandy and Picardy. In the Mediterranean, where large-scale planned development involving joint state and private capital ventures was implemented, this situation has, in many cases, exacerbated coastal instability, while endangering coastal ecosystems, and the growth of urban fronts has commonly led to a drastic reduction in beach width and to dune degradation. Coastal sediment budgets have also been seriously affected by updrift stabilization of cliffs and beaches, especially in Normandy and Picardy. In France, some of the causes of, and the responses to, shoreline destabilization have been essentially a matter of ‘hard’ engineering, for both historical and cultural reasons, although the situation has been changing over the past decade. A brief overview of shoreline stabilization procedures and structures highlights the overwhelming predominance of seawalls and groynes. Recent practices have tended to move closer to beach nourishment, which is gaining ground in France. Four case studies briefly highlight the benefits and disbenefits of shoreline stabilization in France. These are: (1) a sandy city-front beach protected by breakwaters on the macrotidal southern North Sea coast downdrift of the large industrial port of Dunkirk, (2) the regularly renourished and heavily groyned gravel barrier of Cayeux in Picardy, the largest coastal gravel barrier in France, (3) a strongly eroding sector of the Rhône delta shoreline where various combinations of coastal stabilization projects have succeeded each other for over a century and a half, and (4) the regularly renourished gravel beach of Nice, on the French Riviera. These examples show that the emphasis on coastal stabilization at whatever cost that has underpinned coastal management practice needs to be reconsidered, as stabilization will become costlier in the future, as pressures from coastal development increase, as sea level rises and as sediment stocks diminish. Openings in this regard are coming from larger environmental awareness, the recognition of the failure or poor performance of many coastal stabilization projects, and the diversification of the actors involved in coastal management and planning. These developments are progressively generating a new logic of wider concert, on the basis of a more prospective, upfront and long-term approach to coastal management, instead of the logic of a ‘stabilization-only’ and a commonly one-shot immediate response to storm erosion problems that had tended to prevail in the past. © Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2012	NA
303525	Impacts of climate change on agriculture and aquaculture	Climate change is expected to influence several productive sectors, the most significant of which is agriculture. Agriculture comprises an important sector of the global economy that includes crops, livestock, and seafood. Agriculture, aquaculture, and fisheries are closely linked to the climate, with changes in climatic conditions able to drastically affect animal and plant productivity, which in turn has a direct impact on human well-being. Impacts of Climate Change on Agriculture and Aquaculture is a critical scholarly publication that provides an integrated assessment of climate change impacts on agriculture, aquaculture, and fisheries and explores a set of strategies to secure sustainable food security. While highlighting the associations between climate change, food security, and socio-economic development, the book establishes an inventory of good agricultural practices for the adaptation to climate change and presents solutions for making agricultural and food systems more sustainable. Featuring a wide range of topics such as carbon sequestration, ecosystem management, and desertification, this book is ideal for agriculturalists, environmentalists, fisheries, marine biologists, ichthyologists, government officials, academicians, policy makers, scientists, professionals, researchers, and students © 2021 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.	NA
14009	The roles of governments and other actors in adaptation to climate change and variability: The examples of agriculture and coastal communities	There is little question now about the reality of climate change and the importance of adaptation of human activities in reducing the negative impacts of climate change and variability (CCV) as well as the reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions in mitigating this unprecedented phenomenon. This article focuses on adaptation and the adaptive capacity of actors (decision-takers) of all sorts to adopt appropriate strategies and increase their adaptive capacity to cope with CCV by focusing on two types of human activity-agriculture and agricultural territories and coastal communities, both of which have very important roles to play in human society. Given the recent high profile given to the outcomes of COP21 and particularly the potential transfer of significant funding from developed to developing countries to support their battle against CCV, the emphasis has shifted again to the role of governments in this battle. We argue that governments have important roles to play both in developed and developing countries, but supporting funding of initiatives and for developing pertinent action plans is probably the least of our worries! Funding can be important but alone does not solve the challenges, it is what is accomplished with funding that is all important, and this requires the development of effective and pertinent adaptive capacities on the part of the different actors involved in what becomes a co-construction process. We argue that the roles of governments and other actors (collective as well as individual citizens and the activities that they are involved in) need to be better understood in order for this to happen. This is illustrated by research of different types on agriculture and coastal communities.	adaptive capacity; roles of governments and other actors; holistic planning; strategic development planning; co-construction of plans and initiatives
9742	Climate and oceanic fisheries: recent observations and projections and future needs	Several lines of evidence show that climatic variation and global warming can have a major effect on fisheries production and replenishment. To prevent overfishing and rebuild overfished stocks under changing and uncertain environmental conditions, new research partnerships between fisheries scientists and climate change experts are required. The International Workshop on Climate and Oceanic Fisheries held in Rarotonga, Cook Islands, 3-5 October 2011, brought representatives from these disciplines together to consider the effects of climate variability and change on oceanic fisheries, the tools and strategies required for identifying potential impacts on oceanic fisheries, and the priority adaptations for sustaining future harvests, especially in the Pacific Ocean. Recommendations made by the workshop included (1) development and implementation of sustainable management measures for fisheries; (2) long-term commitment to monitoring necessary to assess stock status and to conduct integrated ecosystem assessments; (3) process oriented research to evaluate the potential of marine species for adaptation to a changing ocean environment; (4) provision of improved national meteorological and hydrological services to fisheries agencies, enterprises and communities; (5) continuing communication of potential impacts and adaptation strategies to stakeholders to reduce the threats to oceanic fisheries and capitalise on opportunities; and (6) continued collaborative efforts between meteorological, oceanographic, biological and fisheries researchers and management agencies to better monitor and understand the impacts of short-term variability and longer-term change on oceanic fisheries.	NA
6019	Accounting for justice in local government responses to sea-level rise: evidence from two local councils in Victoria, Australia	This chapter explains the way justice is being considered by two local governments tasked with the responsibility of facilitating adaptation to sea-level rise. It compares the ways in which the East Gippsland Shire Council and Wellington Shire Council in Victoria have approached adaptation to sea-level rise, how they have engaged their communities on the issue, and the way staff in these two local governments think about the justice dimensions of adaptation.	NA
655	Coastal Area Management Based on Disaster Mitigation: A Case Study in Purworejo Regency, Indonesia	Indonesia is an archipelago blessed with the wealth of coastal resources, but also with the risk of natural hazards including tectonic earthquake and tsunami. This potential risk is high in the Purwodadi Subregency, Purworejo Regency, Indonesia, because of its location in an active subduction zone at the edge of the Indian Ocean. Therefore, this study was conducted in the region located on the southern coast of Java Island. The high probability of disaster in the area needs a proper coastal management strategy and mitigation measures. Hence, this study aims to establish an appropriate policy using the strength-weakness-opportunity-threat (SWOT) analysis. Furthermore, the data obtained from this novel analysis include the population and social vulnerability, geological conditions, landuse allocation, and disaster strategies. Each is carefully assessed and then incorporated into the matrix to obtain the result. In addition, the alternative strategies used are the development of disaster mitigation facilities, infrastructure, and institutional strengthening. (C) IJOG - 2021.	swot analysis; geology; strategy; natural hazard; coast
5795	Tourists' representations of coastal managed realignment as a climate change adaptation strategy	In coastal destinations climate change adaptation is needed to address coastal erosion due to a combination of sea level rise and more frequent extreme weather events leading to loss of natural features and tourism infrastructure. Managed realignment is increasingly adopted as a strategy to address coastal change; however, this has often proved a contentious strategy with stakeholder groups. This study explores tourists' representational framework of managed realignment and how this frames understanding of the concept, understanding of how coastal resources might change and implications for future visitation. Data compiled using a questionnaire adopted a social representations theory perspective to analyse how collective tourists' ideas may serve to mobilise the public in various ways. In general tourists have a poor understanding of managed realignment anchored to historic coastal management strategies and contextualised by use values with consequent implications for tourism planning and coastal management decision making. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	climate change; managed realignment; social representations; coastal erosion
233145	Power, knowledge and the transformative potential of marine community science	Community science has gained momentum as a participatory knowledge production approach that can transform governance into more transparent, socially relevant, and democratic endeavours. In the marine context, where the rationalisation of economic knowledge and the marginalisation of local communities are growing concerns, community science is advanced as a potential solution to environmental governance challenges. By increasing monitoring efforts and empowering members of the public to take political action to protect the oceans, community science has helped to transform marine management to address issues, such as, sea-level rise, overfishing, and ocean acidification. However, many community science projects do not realise their transformative potential and, instead, contribute toward reinforcing the status quo of governance, meaning that management challenges remain unsolved. To understand how the full potential of community science can be achieved, research must reframe what transformation is and assess why projects often fail to instigate change. Within community science research, there is an under-appreciation of how transformational change must involve actions that challenge prevailing power relations. We seek to address this gap by initiating a discussion on the political and power dimensions of community science. Drawing on the broader field of co-production, we argue that community science has been depoliticised to reinforce, as opposed to alleviate, unequal arrangements of power that inhibit societal transformation. To combat this, we suggest that community science must develop a more explicit comprehension of power and how it relates to the use and production of knowledge. Informed by the Foucauldian concept of power/knowledge, we argue for a politicised paradigm of community science that recognises how transformation requires pluralism, the contestation of knowledge, and learning amongst all community science actors. This review concludes by considering how transformative community science could introduce new ways of knowing to marine governance and facilitate more active community participation.	NA
331	How Feasible Is the Scaling-Out of Livelihood and Food System Adaptation in Asia-Pacific Islands?	The sustainable development and food security of islands in the Asia-Pacific region is severely compromised by climate change, sea level rise and compounding socio-economic issues. To achieve a step-change in food production and climate adaptation, livelihoods must rapidly transform. Food security programs continue to apply the ``pipeline{'' model of scaling-out technological innovations, but do not account for the social-ecological complexity of islands. We tested the feasibility of scaling-out adaptation strategies in two provinces in the region: Nusa Tenggara Barat in Indonesia, and West New Britain in Papua New Guinea. Guided by a sub-district typology of resource use, we trialled a participatory, systems-based livelihood adaptation pathways approach in sub-district case studies. The process aimed to mainstream social learning and future uncertainty into community development decision-making, yielding `no regrets' adaptation strategies to transform livelihoods. We tested two assumptions: first, that because the contexts of all villages were homogenous, strategies were sufficiently similar to enable scaling-out across the provinces; second, that the sub-district typologies would assist scaling-out within each type. The results showed that the first assumption was untenable: there was very little similarity amongst villages' strategies; only sustainable fisheries management was scalable amongst coastal villages. The second was marginally tenable, because there were strong similarities amongst villages in an off-shore island type. When pooled into classes of adaptation strategy, most related to practice and behaviour change, and addressed systemic social issues; very few were technological. Our results suggest that scaling-out livelihood and food system innovations is not feasible due to the complex social-ecological contexts within islands, caused by steep climate gradients, natural resource and cultural diversity. We discuss the limitations of a resource use typology that aimed to mitigate this complexity and guide scaling-out. Instead we argue that appropriate social learning approaches akin to livelihood adaptation pathways must be mainstreamed into existing community development decision cycles, thereby ``scaling-up{''} and ``scaling-deep{''} to tackle institutional, political and cultural barriers to transformation. We discuss the implications of our recommendations for government and donor support for food security programs in islands of the Asia-Pacific region, and future research priorities.	adaptation pathways; food security; indonesia; islands; livelihoods; papua new guinea; scaling-deep; scaling-up
73668	Ecotourism anywhere? The lure of ecotourism and the need to scrutinize the potential competitiveness of ecotourism developments	This study critiques attempts to develop ecotourism operations at sites with low ecotourism potential. It draws on 34 interviews from five mangrove forests in the Philippines that were developed for ecotourism under various co -management arrangements involving private entrepreneurs, local government, and community participation and empowerment. These stakeholders were initially lured by a vision of the economic, social, and environmental benefits that ecotourism can deliver. However, most sites were located far from major cities and tourism hubs, with limited infrastructure, and unable to outcompete other attractions such as beaches. Financial and business challenges ensued, including low tourist numbers and insufficient revenues to cover operational and mainte-nance costs. Subsequently, some ecoparks experienced mismanagement, embezzlement, and the psychological and political disempowerment of local communities. The study cautions that despite ecotourism's allure, stakeholders could have much to lose from pursuing the ecotourism vision and failing to realise it.	tourism potential; tourism development; destination competitiveness; planning; livelihoods; coastal management; mangroves; sustainable tourism
9090	Awareness of sea-level response under climate change on the coast of Ghana	In response to climate change, coastal communities are expected to experience increasing coastal impacts of sea-level rise (SLR). Strategies formulated and implemented to curb these impacts can thus be more effective if scientific findings on the response to climate change and SLR impacts on coastal communities are taken into consideration and not based merely on the need for coastal protection due to physical coastal erosion. There is also the need to determine the level of awareness of sea-level rise and responses in coastal communities to improve adaptation planning. This study assesses the impact of future erosion on the coastal land cover of Ghana. This assessment estimates approximately 2.66 km(2), 2.77 km(2), and 3.24 km(2) of coastal settlements, 2.10 km(2), 2.20 km(2) and 2.58 km(2) of lagoons, 1.39 km(2), 1.46 km(2) and 1.71 km(2) of wetlands to be at risk of inundation by the year 2050 based on coastal erosion estimates for the 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5 Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) used in the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This study also assesses the level of awareness of respondents to SLR on the coast of Ghana and explores the availability and level of integration of scientific knowledge of SLR into coastal adaptation strategies in Ghana. Assessment of the awareness of SLR responses to the changing climate in Ghana is made through semi-structured interviews at national, municipal/district and coastal community scales. Although settlements may be inundated based on the coastal erosion estimates, coastal dwellers interviewed cherish their proximity to the sea and are determined to maintain their occupancy close to the sea as spatial location influences their source of livelihood (fishing). Respondents lack knowledge/understanding of SLR, as the majority of household interviewees attributed the rise or fall in sea level to God. Respondents from Ngiresia alleged that the ongoing coastal sea defence project in their community has led to increased malaria cases.	climate change; climate change adaptation; coastal impacts; geographic information systems; sea-level rise
7324	The future of Caribbean tourism: competition and climate change implications	Purpose - This conceptual paper examines the Caribbean tourism sector, its growth, performance, importance and its vulnerability to climate change. The purpose of this paper is to serve as an introduction to the on-going conversation around climate change and the socioeconomic impacts likely to be experienced in tourism-dependent Caribbean territories. Design/methodology/approach - The Caribbean is used as the context of this work. A broad perspective was adopted to paint a picture of the wider implications. The region is represented by a multiplicity of country profiles, both in physical and socio-economic characteristics; this warrants a broad assessment of the issues examined here. Findings - This work shows that the Caribbean tourism sectors face significant future threats related to both competitiveness and climate change impacts. For a region so heavily dependent on coastal-and marine-related tourism attractions, adaptation and resilience are critical issues facing Caribbean tourism. An effective approach to building resilience to climate change requires extensive regional cooperation. Research limitations/implications - While there is much published on the matter of climate change implications in the general global context, there is considerably less published work specifically examining the likely effects climate change will have on the special socio-economic features of the Caribbean and on the tourism industry in particular. Practical implications - The lack of extensive and ongoing research dedicated to climate change implications for Caribbean tourism, while limiting the scope of this work, does highlight a gap and open the door for future work that examines, in greater detail both collectively and on an individual country basis, the climate change implications for tourism industries throughout the region. Social implications - Climate change vulnerabilities in the region present a significant threat to economic development, employment and food security among others. Coastal flooding, infrastructural damage and the potential displacement of coastal communities present significant impediments to the quality of life of Caribbean nationals. The social implications necessitate further in-depth study to inform the development of adaptation strategies that may secure the tourism industry and the livelihoods and lifestyles of the people. Originality/value - This work is original in its evaluation of the viewpoints of climate change vulnerability specific to the Caribbean tourism sector.	caribbean; resilience; adaptation; climate change; tourism
283264	Sustainable development in small island developing states: The case of the Maldvies	This paper explores the status of sustainable development in small island developing states (SIDS), through the presentation of a case study on the Maldives, which is a typical small island developing state in the Central Indian Ocean. At the outset, a brief history of sustainable development as related to SIDS on the international agenda is outlined, starting from Rio to Barbados to Johannesburg. SIDS are expected to face many challenges and constraints in pursuing sustainable development due to their ecological fragility and economic vulnerability. It is the position of this paper that issues related to environmental vulnerability are of the greatest concern. A healthy environment is the basis of all life-support systems, including that of human well-being and socio-economic development. Priority environmental problems are: climate change and sea-level rise, threats to biodiversity, threats to freshwater resources, degradation of coastal environments, pollution, energy and tourism. Among these, climate change and its associated impacts are expected to pose the greatest threat to the environment and therefore to sustainable development. For small islands dependent on fragile marine ecosystems, in particular on coral reefs, for their livelihoods and living space, adverse effects of climate change such as increased frequency of extreme weather events and sea-level rise will exacerbate the challenges they already face. It is concluded that the 'paper' path from Rio to Barbados to Johannesburg has made significant progress. However, much remains to be done at the practical level, particularly by the developed countries in terms of new and additional efforts at financial and technical assistance, to make sustainable development a reality for SIDS.	development strategy;  environmental conditions;  small island state;  sustainable development;  vulnerability, maldives, anthozoa
260424	Climate-Friendly Adaptation Strategies for the Displaced Atoll Population in Yap	Traditional agriculture is one of the high priority sectors in Yap Island where the impacts of climate change exceed tolerance limits with implications on the livelihoods of impoverished people occupying marginal environments. This has resulted in forced migration of atoll population to high lands in search of better living conditions. Lack of arable land adds to the agony of the displaced population and threatens the food security at household levels. For the poorest and most vulnerable communities living on fragile and degraded lands, the response measures must address the deteriorating environmental conditions. Adaptation measures driven by the land using simple, yet affordable traditional methods can stop, and even reverse land degradation. This paper examines the results of an ongoing agriculture extension program extended to the displaced atoll population at Gargey settlement on Yap Proper. It highlights the potential of integrated volcanic soil management strategies, alternate crop production practices, and mosaic restoration efforts in regreening a degraded landscape and bringing fresh promise to the displaced communities. A special emphasis is given to the climate-smart adaptation strategies under the umbrella of Pacific American Climate Funding facility to enhance the livelihood opportunities of the displaced atoll population across Yap. © 2017, Springer International Publishing AG.	NA
147661	Reflecting on resilience in Broward County, Florida: A newspaper content analysis about Hurricane Wilma recovery	Resilience is a burgeoning concept in the field of disaster research. While definitions for resilience vary, some scholars distinguish between two scales of resilience: Specified resilience, addressing resistance to known disturbances, and general resilience, addressing a system's capacity to deal with less predictable shocks. This paper qualitatively analyzes the content of 172 Sun-Sentinel newspaper articles to explore the interplay between specified and general resilience in Broward County following Hurricane Wilma in 2005. In these articles about Wilma, a specified disturbance event, some prominent themes that tied into theories of general resilience included the distribution of benefits and risks, accountability, social learning and memory, cross-scale governance, vulnerability and social networks. After identifying these surrogates for resilience and further analyzing the content of the news articles, this paper concludes with four recommendations for Broward County to potentially enhance resilience to future storms and less predictable disturbances, like climate change and sea level rise: (1) Update county vulnerability profiles with attention to socially marginalized vulnerable groups; (2) Reframe and clarify the purpose of the Vulnerable Populations Registry, using social science research; (3) Foster opportunities for community members to share local knowledge, highlighting innovative problem-solving; and (4) Review existing disaster recovery programs to assess the distribution of benefits and risks across populations, space and time. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	resilience; adaptation; vulnerability; natural hazards; climate change; adaptive capacity
5462	Tropical cyclone perceptions, impacts and adaptation in the Southwest Pacific: an urban perspective from Fiji, Vanuatu and Tonga	The destruction caused by tropical cyclone (TC) Pam in March 2015 is considered one of the worst natural disasters in the history of Vanuatu. It has highlighted the need for a better understanding of TC impacts and adaptation in the Southwest Pacific (SWP) region. Therefore, the key aims of this study are to (i) understand local perceptions of TC activity, (ii) investigate impacts of TC activity and (iii) uncover adaptation strategies used to offset the impacts of TCs. To address these aims, a survey (with 130 participants from urban areas) was conducted across three SWP small island states (SISs): Fiji, Vanuatu and Tonga (FVT). It was found that respondents generally had a high level of risk perception and awareness of TCs and the associated physical impacts, but lacked an understanding of the underlying weather conditions. Responses highlighted that current methods of adaptation generally occur at the local level, immediately prior to a TC event (preparation of property, gathering of food, finding a safe place to shelter). However higher level adaptation measures (such as the modification to building structures) may reduce vulnerability further. Finally, we discuss the potential of utilising weather-related traditional knowledge and non-traditional knowledge of empirical and climate-model-based weather forecasts to improve TC outlooks, which would ultimately reduce vulnerability and increase adaptive capacity. Importantly, lessons learned from this study may result in the modification and/ or development of existing adaptation strategies.	NA
236652	Indigenous Women, Climate Change Impacts, and Collective Action	Indigenous peoples must adapt to current and coming climate-induced environmental changes like sea-level rise, glacier retreat, and shifts in the ranges of important species. For some indigenous peoples, such changes can disrupt the continuance of the systems of responsibilities that their communities rely on self-consciously for living lives closely connected to the earth. Within this domain of indigeneity, some indigenous women take seriously the responsibilities that they may perceive they have as members of their communities. For the indigenous women who have such outlooks, responsibilities that they assume in their communities expose them to harms stemming from climate change impacts and other environmental changes. Yet at the same time, their commitment to these responsibilities motivates them to take on leadership positions in efforts at climate change adaptation and mitigation. I show why, at least for some indigenous women, this is an important way of framing the climate change impacts that affect them. I then argue that there is an important implication in this conversation for how we understand the political responsibilities of nonindigenous parties for supporting distinctly indigenous efforts at climate change adaptation and mitigation.	NA
249977	LIVING BREAKWATERS - COASTAL INFRASTRUCTURE IN NEW YORK	How can we connect citizens more directly with their immediate environment? How can we anticipate rising sea levels and increasingly intense storms, but also revive waterbodies, and connect people to the shore? Living Breakwaters is an innovative coastal green infrastructure project that was selected as one of the winning projects of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Rebuild by Design competition that aims to answer these questions. The project is being implemented by the New York State Governor's Office of Storm Recovery with 60 million USD of Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funding. Planned for the Raritan Bay and Staten Island. Living Breakwaters links in-water infrastructure with on-shore education and outreach, to help reduce risk, enhance ecosystems and foster stewardship.	ecological design; risk reduction; coastal infrastructure; civic engagement; waterfront; resiliency
132482	Experiences in Geodesign in Georgia, USA	Collaborative planning in the coast of Georgia, USA, at the regional scale, by applying a Geodesign framework used for the evaluation and negotiation of alternative plans from multiple stakeholders, using innovative tools for assessing, visualizing and sharing proposals. Each project evaluated issues of conservation, resilience, and regional development in a sensitive coastal area, with great historic and ecological value, in a region that has been exposed to the impacts of two hurricanes in the past three years. The second project integrates two dynamic models for ecological connectivity and for land use allocation using the most recent green infrastructure national datasets. A single negotiated regional plan was the result that will be used for future planning efforts by the coastal regional agency as well as other stakeholders.	geodesign; coastal planning; resilience
8329	Culturally grounded responses to coastal change on islands in the Federated States of Micronesia, northwest Pacific Ocean	The characterization of Pacific Islands as especially vulnerable to climate change often undervalues the cultural resilience of their inhabitants. On many Micronesian islands, coastal stone-built structures are the most visible type of tangible cultural resilience and have endured for perhaps 1000 years or more. A distinction is recognized between older structures, likely built in response to sea-level rise during the Medieval Warm Period (AD 750-1250), and more recent structures that likely took advantage of the lowered sea level during the Little Ice Age (AD 1350-1800). Detailed studies of Micronesian responses to recent coastal change were undertaken in the islands of Yap (Proper). The positioning and maintenance of coastal men's houses (faluw) reflect either pragmatic responses to unmanageable coastal change or a cultural determination to resist this. The long history of traditional responses to climate variability and coastal change for terrestrial food production on Yap is also discussed. Future adaptation pathways on Yap and other higher islands in Micronesia need to combine scientific knowledge of climate change with traditional responses to historical change, including the stonework tradition and the cultural determination to resist undesired coastal change.	pacific; island; micronesia; coastal change; climate change; adaptation
10258	Applying information for national adaptation planning and decision making: present and future practice in the Pacific Islands	Climate change adaptation decision-making frameworks have evolved over the past three decades, with the management of information and knowledge now a key element of these processes. This paper examines the use of climate change-related information for national adaptation planning and decision-making in the Pacific Islands region to better understand the use of, and demand for, such information. Using an appreciative inquiry approach, a situation analysis was undertaken to examine the information praxis of national governments in Papua New Guinea, Tonga and Tuvalu, as well as the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment Programme. The study revealed that adaptation decisions are (i) driven by national strategies and priorities which are innately community-centred, (ii) largely made through collaborative structures involving multiple stakeholders within a specific governance or project setting, and (iii) informed by a range of climatic and nonclimatic information from domestic, regional and international sources. The study also affirmed the importance of information and knowledge management to national adaptation planning and decision-making, evidence of collaborative and multistakeholder decision-making processes, and the trend towards country-driven and user-centred information and knowledge production. The study recommends dedicated commitment to and investment in information and knowledge management for Pacific Islands, and the need for a holistic understanding of the complex environment in which climate change adaptation takes place.	climate change; adaptation; decision-making; pacific; information; knowledge
234500	Trends in landings and vulnerability to climate change in different fleet components in the Portuguese coast	Portugal is the third highest per capita consumer of fish in the world, with a fishing fleet consisting of trawlers, purse-seiners and multi-gear vessels, which use a wide variety of fishing gears, such as gillnets, trammel nets, longlines or traps. Climate change affects ocean conditions, impacting marine organisms and ecosystems, with consequences for marine fisheries. The consequences of climate change on fishing communities will depend on their exposure to this factor, the sensitivity of target species and ecosystems to climate change and fishermen's ability to adapt to climate change. The Portuguese coast is mainly north-south oriented and located in a biogeographic transition zone, between temperate and subtropical waters, where the northern or southern distribution limits of several species can be found. Also, the Portuguese coast is expected to suffer changes in temperature and precipitation more accelerated than the global mean alteration rate, Which makes it particularly adequate for studies of the effect of climate change on coastal communities and fisheries. The present study analysed trends in landings of the most important fishing metiers in the Portuguese coast and the vulnerability and adaptation capacity of Portuguese fisheries to climate change. Official Portuguese landings (1992-2012) were analysed and a survey was conducted to assess fishermen's perception of landings and their potential behaviour in response to the effects of climate change on fisheries. Eighteen new species were landed in Portuguese fisheries over the past 5 years, of which 12 were tropical or subtropical and 5 had their distribution limit along the Portuguese coast. A latitudinal pattern in the number of new species in landings was found, agreeing with a northward shift of subtropical species. The south coast has shown a higher vulnerability to climate change, in terms of both exposure and sensitivity of target species and ecosystems to its effects. Trawlermen may be more adaptable and less vulnerable to climate change, given the high mobility of their fleet. Multi-gear fisheries may be more flexible in changing target species or fishing gear, which makes them potentially less vulnerable to climate change. On the other hand, the high sensitivity of sardine to the effects of climate change makes the purse-seine fisheries particularly vulnerable to climate change. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	climate change; fisheries; trawl; purse-seine; multi-gear
13530	Mitigating uncertainty and enhancing resilience to climate change in the fisheries sector in Taiwan: Policy implications for food security	The human population is projected to grow to more than 9 billion by 2050. New farming and fishing techniques are continually being developed. However, food production remains restricted by the finiteness of natural resources and the rapid increase in the global population. In the future, food production may decline because of the aggravated effects of climate change. Food production will be unable to satisfy the demands of the global population, leading to a food security crisis. As the world population continues to increase, food shortages will become increasingly severe, particularly for regions located in ``climate impact hot spots{''} in tropical and subtropical zones and for small-island countries such as Taiwan. In the present study, supply and demand are analysed to examine the risks and uncertainties associated with the impact of climate change on the domestic and imported seafood supply. First, we conduct a literature review to identify the climate risk for sea food security, and then, we analyse the domestic production of both the marine fishing catch and aquaculture. This study also examines the critical problems of the imported seafood supply and applies a comparative analysis of impact type and differences in the top 10 seafood import countries to organize adaptation strategies to climate change. Moreover, due to the type of climate impact and the differences between long-term climate impact and extreme climate impact, we collect and compile the existing climate adaptation strategies of fishery production, seafood importing, and the demand and supply of seafood in Taiwan. Finally, we perform a comparative analysis to seek any deficiencies in the existing climate adaptation strategies and offer new adaptation guidelines based on the existing climate adaptation strategies. The results show that Taiwan's major adaptation strategies have been precautionary mitigation measures. In terms of resilience management, only the buffer stock scheme plan and the stabilization funds method are selected for some specific species to mitigate the short-term fluctuation in both yield and price for imported domestic seafood. However, we will confront uncertainties stemming from global climate change in the future; the existing climate adaptation strategies of Taiwan are still not sufficient to respond to climate impacts. For example, the climate change early warning system is still very inadequate, the existing scientific knowledge is insufficient, and the current adaptation strategies are insufficient for resolving the fluctuations in the market mechanism of seafood. According to the principles of risk management, the adaptation strategies recommended in this study can be differentiated into two categories: precautionary mitigation measures can be used to adapt to domestic production and uncertainties; such measures include avoidance, transfer, and reduction to prevent the frequency and consequences of climate change for building a resilient fisheries sector. Moreover, resilience management (e.g., risk retention) can be used to respond to uncertainties in supply for adjusting production and mitigating the risks of climate change. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	climate change; climate change adaptation strategies; climate risk; demand; fisheries food security; precautionary mitigation measures; risk management; resilience; supply
9789	Adaptation to sea level rise in spatial planning - Experiences from coastal towns in Norway	Rising sea level has become a spatial planning challenge in Norway, as in many other coastal countries. This article focuses on how some selected Norwegian coastal towns adapt to this challenge in their spatial planning, and identifies potential barriers and opportunities for adaptation. Hammerfest in northern Norway is of particular interest since it is one of the few municipalities in Norway that addresses the future rise in sea level in its current municipal master plan. The main conclusion is that although sea level rise has scarcely been acknowledged as a challenge to spatial planning, there is increasing awareness and knowledge of the issues and impacts it presents. An important barrier to adaptation is the lack of authoritative signals from the national government. In Hammerfest there are enthusiasts in the municipal administration, and their ability to build networks with other relevant parties including both the Planning Section in the municipality and other actors outside the municipality which is a major reason for the consideration of sea level rise being integrated into the master plan. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	NA
297	Adaptation opportunities to climate variability and change in the exploitation and utilisation of marine living resources	Because they contribute little to climate change, fisheries, aquaculture and other uses of marine renewable resources and environment have limited means to mitigate climate impacts. Adaptation is, therefore, critical. Though likely effects on oceans and fisheries can be identified, few can be quantified and, thus, priorized. Consequently, adaptation strategies should aim at enhancing the resilience of marine renewable resources and their uses and the current capacity to respond to surprises. Already, these uses are characterized by massive over-capacities, excessive resource exploitation, and pervasive conflicts within and between uses. Two complementary adaptation strategies are available. The first consists in adjusting conventional management systems to the new conditions of resource scarcity. The second aims at reducing the current resource constraint by promoting the development of aquaculture and a better utilization of fishery and aquaculture harvests. In this respect, small-scale and large-scale production systems, and developing and developed countries, have different capabilities. In summary, climate change does not modify, but enhances, existing priorities of environment and fisheries management and aquaculture development.	NA
233715	Planning for coastal erosion and inundation in Western Australia: Practices and perceptions from the local level	This article investigates the range of spatial planning instruments being considered or implemented by local governments in Western Australia for responding to coastal erosion and inundation hazards. It examines whether the existing legislative framework is inhibiting the implementation of these instruments, or if any such inhibitions are due to other significant factors. Particular consideration is given to the revised State Coastal Planning Policy adopted in 2013. Using interviews with local planners this research finds that many instruments have been applied either in response to coastal hazards or for other planning purposes. However, widespread instrument use for adaptation purposes has been limited in the absence of sufficient implementation guidance. Significantly, the revised policy states an explicit preference for relocation over coastal protection. However, planners are unsure how these instruments can be used to implement relocation strategies in existing urban areas for the purposes of preserving public amenity, without significant investments in land acquisition.	NA
