id	title	abstract	keywords
221598	Design and Performance of Permeable Groins on a Low-Energy Natural Beach	Beach erosion, ubiquitous of sandy coasts around the world, can be exacerbated or mitigated with the use of hard engineering solutions including groins. The use of groins has been discouraged in many countries despite its capability to reduce sand losses. This study aims to design a 15 m permeable groin that allows sediment bypassing. Field experiments were conducted on a low-energy, sea-breeze dominated micro-tidal beach at the northern Yucatan peninsula during both mean and extreme wave conditions. Firstly, a short-term experiment consisted in monitoring the structure performance for 24 h during typical sea breeze conditions and the subsequent beach recovery after the structure removal. Secondly, a multi-day (60 days) experiment was conducted to investigate the performance of a single- and double-groin system during both mean and local storm conditions. Beach surveys were conducted to evaluate the beach response. Shoreline variability shows sediment accretion on the east side of the structure during sea breezes, whereas during NNW storm events, the accretion occurred on the west side. Importantly, on a scale of days, sediment bypassing occurs, and hence a net accretion was measured at both sides of the structure. During this time, a second structure was deployed 30 m apart to test the performance of a double-groin system, finding a net shoreline advance at all beach transects. Thus, low-crested short-length permeable groins are found to be a suitable emergency mitigation measure against beach erosion in micro-tidal environments causing moderate shoreline change.	permeable groins; sea breezes; central american cold surges; swash zone; field experiments
986	COASTAL STRUCTURES \& SEA LEVEL RISE: AN OPTIMIZED ADAPTIVE MANAGEMENT APPROACH	There is a desire in the scientific community and various U.S. federal agencies (e.g., U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, etc) to plan federal projects in a way that accommodates sea level rise. While efforts are underway, strict guidance is not yet available. Some U.S. coastal states (e.g., California Coastal Conservancy, 2009 and Cyan et al, 2006) have drafted approaches to include the effects of climate change. In the absence of specific guidance, however, coastal management agencies are often at the center of the debate surrounding the need to plan for sea level rise (SLR) and are forced to act in an ad hoc manner. In some cases, permits for new developments and existing projects cannot proceed without an agreement to address SLR. This paper presents an adaptive management approach that starts with an initial structure which is then strengthened over time to meet SLR.	NA
3151	A GIS based model of rolling easement policies in Pinellas County and Sarasota County, Florida	Florida is the fourth most vulnerable coastal state in the USA to sea level rise (SLR). Studies predict that a 1.20 m rise translates into the displacement of almost five million people and destroys about 2.6 million homes. The only solution to reducing the vulnerability of Florida's coastline is the creation and implementation of coastal policies, including a reduction in armoring and the adoption of policies such as rolling easements. This paper advances a SLR inundation computer model that estimates the costs of applying rolling easement policy through three outcomes: property value loss, property area loss and conservation easement payments to home owners. The GIS computer model is modular which allows new policy components, datasets, or ArcGIS tools to easily be added to the model. The results show that property land inundation and real property losses are primarily linear while rolling easement compensation payments are substantial during the first three scenarios then are largely stable for the remaining SLR steps. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	gis; slr; sea level rise; python; florida; modeling; arcgis; inundation; real property
250995	The dynamics of institutional arrangements for climate change adaptation in small island developing states in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans	The successful design, implementation and management of the institutional arrangements for climate change adaptation are critical components of sustainable development. This is especially true for small island developing states (SIDS), a group of 58 countries spread across three main geographic regions, which are acknowledged as being disproportionately vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. In many instances, the dynamics of these arrangements in SIDS are poorly understood and documented. This study helps to fill this gap by identifying and analyzing ``networks of action situations{''} through semi-structured interviews with 14 national and international climate change officials and practitioners in four SIDS (Comoros, Maldives, Seychelles, and Singapore) in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans region. We find that there are a few strategic actors involved in multiple, mutually reinforcing and sometimes conflicting arrangements, which are simultaneously being shaped and reshaped at different scales. We also find varying patterns of power, politics and participation that act as both drivers of and barriers to adaptation in these countries. By deconstructing institutional interlinkages and strategic feedback loops, this paper contributes to a broader understanding of the complexities of environmental governance in small jurisdictions.	adaptation; institutions; networks of action situations; participation; politics; power
5304	Factors Affecting Small-Scale Fishers Adaptation toward the Impacts of Climate Change: Reflections from South Eastern Bangladeshi Fishers	The main objective of this research is to understand fishers' perceptions of climate change and to identify factors that influence their expectations concerning adapting to change. Two coastal communities at Salimpur on the Sitakunda coast and Sarikait in Sandwip Island were selected as a case study to analyse fishers' perceptions of climate change in southeastern Bangladesh. This research involved a questionnaire survey to interview 135 male fishers in two areas, who are professional fishers. Exploratory factor analysis and a binary logistic regression were adopted for empirical analysis. From the fishers surveyed, 84\% opined that they might adapt and continue the fishing profession in response to climate change. The results suggested that fishers, although they have experienced formal and institutional barriers to adaptation in response to climate change and pursued alternative livelihoods as adaptation strategies, may continue to a fishing profession in the future. On the contrary, the fishers who have generated a high fishing income and experienced extreme climate events may not continue to a fishing profession. Fishers also cited climatic factors along with non-climatic factors (fishing ban, no return on investment, low supply of caught fish) as the reasons hindering their adaptation strategies in response to climate change.	adaptation; bangladesh; climate change; fisheries management; fishers' perception
371220	How do waves behave?	Freak storms around the U.K.'s coast could be the first signs of a new wave climate requiring a reevaluation of coastal defence policy. Although global warming was raising sea levels annually, it did not account for the changes in wave behaviour. New and accurate data on these wave patterns are essential as equations governing the design of defences are related to the cube of the wave height, a 10% error in approximate wave height causing a 33% error in the design. The technology and use of wave recorders is discussed. -P.M.Taylor	coastal protection;  design waves;  wave motion, coastal protection;  wave patterns
13869	Effect of spatial adaptation measures on flood risk: study of coastal floods in Belgium	Flood risk in coastal zones is projected to increase due to climate change and socioeconomic changes. Over the last decades, population growth, increases in wealth, and urban expansion have been found to be the main causes for increasing losses in coastal areas. These changes may, however, be offset by appropriate management measures. The main goal of this study is to assess future changes in flood risk and the effectiveness of flood risk adaptation measures for the coastal zone in Flanders, Belgium. In order to achieve this, we set up a modeling framework to assess the future flood risk of the Belgian coast including climatic and socioeconomic projections, and used this model to assess the effectiveness of two spatial adaptation measures: compartmentalization and land-use zoning. In this modeling framework, a land-use model, an inundation model, and a damage model were combined to calculate expected annual damage. Results show that without adaptation measures, future flood risk would increase substantially. Compartmentalization would result in an average flood risk reduction of approximately 50 \% for both the baseline situation and future scenarios. Land-use zoning would result in smaller flood risk reductions, averaging between 6 and 10 \%. Except for the most extreme climate change scenario, compartmentalization would successfully offset the combined adverse effects of socioeconomic growth and climate change on flood risk for this case study. For both compartmentalization and zoning, large differences have been found in their effectiveness at the local level, implying that the choice of adaptation measures should be tailored to local characteristics.	flood risk modeling; climate change; socioeconomic change; spatial adaptation measures; land-use zoning; compartmentalization
63327	Interactive Exploration of Coastal Restoration Modeling in Virtual Environments	Over the last decades, Louisiana has lost a substantial part of its coastal region to the Gulf of Mexico. The goal of the project depicted in this paper is to investigate the complex ecological and geophysical system not only to find solutions to reverse this development but also to protect the southern landscape of Louisiana for disastrous impacts of natural hazards like hurricanes. This paper sets a focus on the interactive data handling of the Chenier Plain which is only one scenario of the overall project. The challenge addressed is the interactive exploration of large-scale time-depending 2D simulation results and of terrain data with a high resolution that is available for this region. Besides data preparation, efficient visualization approaches optimized for the usage in virtual environments are presented. These are embedded in a complex framework for scientific visualization of time-dependent large-scale datasets. To provide a straightforward interface for rapid application development, a software layer called VRFlow Vis has been developed. Several architectural aspects to encapsulate complex virtual reality aspects like multi-pipe vs. cluster-based rendering are discussed. Moreover, the distributed post-processing architecture is investigated to prove its efficiency for the geophysical domain. Runtime measurements conclude this paper.	coastal restoration; virtual reality; scientific visualization; large-scale datasets; time-dependent visualization; hybrid data visualization
90692	SUSTAINABLE TOURISM FOR REMOTE ATOLLS IN THE PACIFIC	Coral atolls, as visitor destinations, have received little attention in the literature of tourism on mid-oceanic islands. However, the current trend of nature-based tourism, which involves travelling to relatively remote and undisturbed places, makes the atolls a desirable destination. This paper explores ways of how appropriate tourism can be introduced to atoll society within the context of traditional resource uses and the application of intermediate technologies. With the acceptance of a code of ethics for tourist behaviour and technologies aimed at reducing dependency of foreign imports, atoll tourism could become a viable economic alternative to the continued overexploitation of marine resources.	sustainable tourism; atolls; appropriate technologies; visitor attractions; traditional marine tenure system; code of ethics
246571	From community-based to locally led adaptation: Evidence from Vanuatu	The Green Climate Fund, donors, governments and non-governmental organisations, among others, are pouring vast amounts of financial and human capital into community-based adaptation across the developing world. The underlying premise is that the world's majority-who have the minority of financial capital-are living on the margins and are the most vulnerable and at risk from climate change. Such a reality, coupled with a deficit understanding of the majority world, is resulting in significant implications for how the `adaptation industry' (those that fund, design and implement projects) go about their work. Drawing on research evaluating 15 community-based adaptation projects in Vanuatu we found that despite genuine attempts, projects invariably fell short of success, longevity and sustainability. We argue that the indifferent, albeit variable, success of most projects is attributable to the construction of the geographical scale of `community-based' and the deficit view flowing down to the `community' through hubris policy, funding guidelines and individual implementers. Our findings show that `experts' are working in Pacific communities, conducting assessments that involve asking what `community' needs are, going away to design projects, coming back and implementing projects, which communities are inevitably challenged to sustain once funding has ceased. We postulate that these limitations stem from such a formation of adaptation work that pejoratively fails to see Pacific Islanders in situ as the best litmus test of their own agendas, needs, aspirations and futures and in the best position to make decisions for themselves about what and how they might become more resilient. We claim from a growing body of evidence and new frontiers in research that, rather than adaptation being `community-based', it needs to be `locally led', not limited to `communities', and should take place across different entry points and incorporate, as appropriate, elements of autonomous/Indigenous peoples ownership.	climate change; community-based adaptation; developing countries; vanuatu
237357	Costs of Adapting Coastal Defences to Sea-Level Rise-New Estimates and Their Implications	The cost of upgrading and raising coastal defences is an important consideration in societal response to sea-level rise. Currently available unit cost estimates have a limited empirical basis. This article presents new information on the unit costs of adapting coastal defences for three specific case studies in low-lying delta regions: The Netherlands, New Orleans, and Vietnam. Typical measures include dikes, flood walls, storm surge barriers, and nourishment. These unit cost estimates are significantly higher than earlier estimates that are still the main source of costs for global vulnerability assessments. Factors affecting these unit costs include local economic factors (material and labour costs), design choices related to the alignment of the system, and the types of measures for implementation of the system in an urban or rural environment. On the basis of an example for a Dutch sea dike, it is shown that the material quantities and associated costs are expected to rise linearly, in the case of depth-limited wave breaking, for the range of sea-level rise rates that are expected in the coming century. However, other factors, such as increasing costs for implementation of wider coastal defences in an urban environment and future changes in material and labour costs, could contribute to a nonlinear increase of the costs. Further collection and analysis of project information for coastal defence projects in other regions is recommended to strengthen the empirical basis of the cost estimates that are used for regional and global assessments.	climate adaptation; engineering measures; dikes; flood protection; storm surge barriers; sea-level rise; unit costs
11302	Tourism and beach erosion: valuing the damage of beach erosion for tourism in the Hoi An World Heritage site, Vietnam	The Hoi An World Heritage site in Vietnam has faced increasing coastal erosion as a result of both natural and anthropogenic causes since the 2010s. Main drivers are the construction of hydropower dams on the Vu Gia and Thu Bon Rivers, illegal sand mining in the South China Sea, and sea level rise along the Central Coast Vietnam. Coastal erosion affects the tourism attraction of this area. A challenge for both the national government and the local authorities is understanding the nature of the contemporary coastal erosion; this includes the beach erosion and tourism relationship. This study deals with the damage valuation of the beach erosion in relation to the tourism revenue based on the hedonic pricing method. Cua Dai beach of Hoi An is structured into 23 beach sectors along the shore, each of which shows a relative homogeny in physical characteristics, anthropogenic activities, and socioeconomics. The beach value is function of morphological variables such as beach width and distance to the city center, and tourism variables such as tourist area, coastal businesses, the number of hotels, and the number of hotel rooms. The two-stage least squares (2SLS) of the custom-log model is the most accurate approach. The total projected revenue losses are more than an estimated 29 million US dollars by 2040. The present values of the total annual revenue losses in 2020, 2030, and 2040 are about 29.6, 21.4, and 14 million US dollars, respectively, at an interest rate of 5\%. The results suggest mitigation strategies and policy recommendations. The proposal includes improving the adaptation capacity to coastal erosion using innovative, smart, and wise solutions. Beach nourishment and coastal defense structures can be sustainable management tools combating coastal erosion only if the multicausal coastal processes are properly considered and a detailed cost-benefit analysis is performed.	economic valuation; beach erosion; tourism revenue; cua dai beach; hoi an world heritage; vietnamese central coast
249685	Flood protection for the City of Beira: An exemplary climate adaptation project in Mozambique	A new tidal outlet is now protecting the port city on Mozambique's Indian Ocean coast with a population of approximately half a million people, and improving the city's drainage. Since the Indian Ocean in this area has a very large tidal range of up to 7 m, reliable coastal protection is of great importance. The Chiveve tidal river, which runs through the city for a distance of approx. 5 km, was neglected in the past, and became increasingly silted up, to the point that it no longer served as a drainage channel for the surrounding area. The standing water promoted the spreading of diseases such as malaria and cholera. During very high tides or storm surges in the adjacent ocean, combined with heavy rainfall, the Chiveve regularly overflowed its banks and flooded much of its catchment area - particularly the informal settlements along its banks. To address this problem, Inros Lackner designed a new tidal outlet and flood barrier to protect Beira's city centre. The project also included a comprehensive plan for the reestablishment of the original river course and renaturation measures along its embankments. This included excavation of the river, dredging of sludge within the fishing port downstream, resettlement measures, and planting of young mangroves along the river banks.	flood barrier; climate change; flood protection; tidal outlet; sperrwerk; klimawandel; hochwasserschutz; sielbauwerk; wasserbau; entwurf und konstruktion
124051	Restoration otherwise: Towards alternative coastal ecologies	This article considers how to rethink ecological restoration as a process tethered to ongoing formulations of racial and environmental justice. It is situated in the context of coastal Louisiana's wetland loss crisis and the state's unprecedented investment in large-scale wetland restoration projects as a technoscientific fix that comes at the expense of several small, Black and Indigenous bayou communities. Critical of approaching restoration as a practice predicated on loss and return, this article builds upon scholarship in Black and Indigenous ecologies and ethnographic fieldwork among Black coastal communities in southeast Louisiana to reimagine restoration as an intergenerational, socioecological set of practices grounded in cultivating cultural continuity and community care across time and space. Working with the Black feminist geographic concepts of the plot and the shoal, the article develops the notion alternative restorations-or restoration otherwise-around three reformulations of restoration: As a practice of cultural continuity, as a mode of cultivating self-reliance, and as a scientific practice of integrity and humility. It concludes by reflecting the ways Black ecological practices and values can shift the course of restoration science toward sustaining Black life in the era of climate change.	coastal louisiana; ecological restoration; temporality; black ecologies; indigenous ecologies
185	Adaptation to climate change-related ocean acidification: An adaptive governance approach	Climate change-driven ocean acidification (OA) is causing rapid change to global ecosystems and poses a significant threat to marine life. However, predicting ecosystem effects remains highly uncertain and governance responses to OA are not yet forthcoming. Adaptive governance can provide a means to deal with this uncertainty and we consider its application to the polycentric governance of adaptation responses to OA in Scotland, focussing on the aquaculture industry as a vulnerable sector. A workshop was used to develop potential responses to OA and to gain information about present and potential capacity for adaptive governance at national and regional levels. Scottish legislation, policy and planning documents were subsequently analysed to enable description of how governance and management arrangements constrain or enable adaptation responses. Legislative and policy analysis indicates convergence across emerging mechanisms in support of adaptive governance and identified interventions. Recent advances in climate change adaptation in Scotland promotes integration of adaptation into wider Scottish Government policy development and functions, based on iterative and collaborative processes across scales. Alongside this, new models of coastal and marine governance, including a partnership-led regional marine planning process and devolution of seabed management rights under Crown Estate Scotland, seek to advance new models of locally-led and learning-based planning and management which can support adaptation responses. However, adaptation measures at operational scale requires flexibility in the aquaculture licensing regime which is currently of low adaptive capacity. Further, expansion of the industry faces social and ecological constraints which limit spatial measures, and are complicated by uncertainty in predicting local OA effects. Expanding the use of holistic and co-operative management tools such as Aquaculture Management Areas could support adaptation across wider spatial scales. Better integration across policy and planning instruments is also needed to enhance adaptive capacity, including between climate change adaptation, marine planning and aquaculture planning and management. This could be enabled by establishing links between existing and proposed collaborative groups to enhance development of adaptation responses and through co-ordination of monitoring and review processes to promote learning across scales.	ocean acidification; adaptive governance; climate change adaptation; aquaculture
274464	Climate change-related impacts in the San Diego region by 2050	This paper explores what the San Diego region may look like in the year 2050 as projected changes in regional climate conditions take place. Focusing on interrelated issues of climate change, sea level rise, population growth, land use, and changes in water, energy, public health, wildfires, biodiversity, and habitat, the paper reviews the potential impacts of a changing climate by 2050 and makes recommendations for changes in planning processes at the local and regional levels to prepare for these impacts. The original research for this study was completed in 2008 by a team of 40 experts from the region including universities, nonprofit organizations, local governments, public sector agencies and private sector entities. This paper has now been updated with more recent research regarding climate change adaptation while preserving the integrity of the original research team's work. The simulated impacts discussed in this study are based on regional projections of climate change generated by scientists at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, employing three climate models and two emissions scenarios used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The impacts are discussed in the context of significant regional growth expected during the period as well as an aging population base. Key issues explored in the report include potential inundation of six selected low-lying coastal areas in San Diego due to sea level rise, potential shortfalls in water deliveries, peak energy demand increases due to higher temperatures, growing risk of devastating wildfires, migrations of species in response to higher temperatures in an increasingly fragmented natural habitat, and public health issues associated with extreme temperature events. © 2011 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.	aging population;  changing climate;  climate change adaptation;  coastal area;  emissions scenarios;  extreme temperatures;  higher temperatures;  intergovernmental panel on climate changes;  local government;  natural habitat;  non profit organizations;  peak energy demand;  planning process;  population growth;  potential impacts;  private sectors;  public health;  public health issues;  public sector agencies;  regional climate;  regional levels;  research teams;  san diego;  scripps institution of oceanographies;  sea level rise;  water delivery, biodiversity;  climate models;  coastal zones;  computer simulation;  ecosystems;  energy management;  health risks;  population statistics;  research;  sea level;  water supply, climate change, aging population;  climate change;  climate effect;  climate modeling;  high temperature;  intergovernmental panel on climate change;  land use change;  local government;  nonprofit organization;  population growth;  public health;  regional climate;  sea level change;  spatiotemporal analysis;  wildfire, california;  san diego;  united states
11901	Risk-benefit perceptions, preferences for solutions, and gaining trust: Listening to New Jersey's Atlantic Ocean port communities	We designed a survey to measure public preferences for management actions at ports that would reduce negative risk perceptions, increase competence-based trust, and overall provide port managers with opportunities to build communication channels with surrounding populations. A total of 511 people who lived in a 45-square mile area of New Jersey containing over 300,000 people and a dozen large and small ports responded to solutions that offered independent science support, provided ongoing public health surveillance, and economic assistance for local communities. Environmental health concerns about air, noise, fires, port security, and protection against climate-related impacts were major correlates of these preferences. Yet many residents recognized economic benefits associated with nearby ports and many either trusted port management or were neutral and felt not well informed. Those who had a personal or family connection to the port were stronger port supporters. The most important finding and challenge for port managers is building ongoing relationships with the majority of nearby residents who are not aware of port activities, which presents an opportunity for increasing trust through proactive outreach and listening to nearby community representatives.	community perceptions and preferences; ports; risk communications; solutions; trust
248086	Towards Establishing a National Mechanism to Address Losses and Damages: A Case Study from Bangladesh	This chapter presents a case study of setting up a national mechanism to address losses and damages in Bangladesh-a highly climate vulnerable country facing significant losses and damages, putting its domestic resources and expertise together to respond in a way that looks ahead and beyond the conventional responses to climate change. The efforts underway to establish the national mechanism build upon existing institutions and frameworks and are an example of collaboration across ministries, and a break-away from working in silos. The proposed mechanism is an attempt to embed climate change perspectives into disaster policymaking, to address the gaps in the current policy framework and to design a comprehensive system to for a stronger response to losses and damages from climate impacts. A national mechanism to address losses and damages not only responds to the needs within the country, it also reaffirms Bangladesh's commitment to the national targets and indicators within the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030. Furthermore, the functions of the national mechanism replicate the work areas of the WIM, signalling Bangladesh's commitments to the Paris Agreement. For a resource constrained LDC country, the efforts made by researchers, the development community and policymakers show resourcefulness, proactiveness and agency that can be replicated in countries facing similar vulnerabilities and resource constraints.	loss and damage; sea level rise; cyclones; flooding; national policy; disaster risk reduction; adaptation; technical committee
6803	Examining the Effectiveness of Climate Change Communication with Adolescents in Vietnam: The Role of Message Congruency	Climate change makes coastal communities more vulnerable to floods associated with storm surges and sea level rise, requiring both adaptation and mitigation measures. Moreover, proper understanding of flood risks and their potential impacts on climate change appears to be a communication challenge. In climate change communication, the effect of framing congruency on perception of risk, efficacy and behavioural intentions towards climate change adaptation and mitigation has received limited attention. Messages have not been congruent in framing risks associated with climate change. We define congruency as the coherent alignment of several aspects of message content. Messages are considered congruent when they provide recipients with consistent contents such as giving concrete and actionable advice, or by providing more abstract and general background information. This research focuses on climate change communication in fostering mitigation behaviours among adolescents in vulnerable locations in the global South. Based on Construal Level Theory, this paper investigates how message congruency affects the link between perceptions of climate change risk and efficacy and two predictors of behavioural change: perceived responsibility and mitigation intentions. We conducted an experiment to test the effect of congruent vs. incongruent risk communication among adolescents in highly vulnerable coastal communities in the Mekong Delta in Vietnam (N = 348). Multiple regression analysis found strong effects of congruency in message framing; when messages were congruent in the content, communicative interventions changed adolescents' perceptions and attitudes toward climate change mitigation more consistently. This research contributes both theoretically and practically to risk communication among adolescents and toward climate change mitigation behaviour.	climate change; risk communication; message framing; construal level; adolescents
243653	Boston tidal barrier, UK: adapting to climate change and delivering social outcomes	Climate-adaptation projects such as flood defence schemes must deliver wider societal benefits in the communities they protect to ensure long-term resilience and regeneration. This paper presents a case study of the 100 pound million Boston tidal barrier across the River Witham in Lincolnshire, UK, that now better protects over 13 000 homes from tidal flooding. The United Nations sustainable development goals provided a framework for monitoring and evaluating the wider benefits of the project and enabled its full societal benefits to be understood and communicated by all key project stakeholders. The primary barrier, completed in 2020, has delivered benefits against all 17 goals and is an example of how sustainability can be embedded into all aspects of a civil engineering project.	climate change; social impact; sustainability
11353	Preventive resettlement in anticipation of sea level rise: a choice experiment from Alexandria, Egypt	The city of Alexandria, Egypt, is highly exposed to sea level rise putting communities at risk to related coastal hazards such as storm surges and inundation. In the future, preventive resettlement may become a realistic and, under some conditions, unavoidable adaptation policy to sea level rise. Many examples of failed resettlement projects exist worldwide, wherein the resettled populations faced increased social and economic risks. This paper investigates the preferences of vulnerable people in Alexandria for preventive resettlement programs in response to sea level rise. A choice experiment was conducted to assess the willingness to participate in voluntary resettlement programs and to identify important factors that influence the decision to participate. This can help policy makers to design people-centered resettlement programs that provide the right incentives to increase voluntary participation. Results show that for those who are, in principle, willing to resettle, factors such as transparency of the relocation process, public/social infrastructure, financial compensation, housing and income/job security can significantly influence their choices. However, a large share of the population is not willing to resettle given the proposed alternative resettlement programs included in the choice experiment. Urban households are more likely to be unwilling to resettle, while factors such as income insecurity and fewer social relationships decrease the probability of choosing not to resettle ceteris paribus.	resettlement; sea level rise; choice experiment; precautionary adaptation; alexandria
5395	Adaptive capacity of small-scale coastal fishers to climate and non-climate stressors in the Western region of Ghana	Small-scale coastal fisheries (SSCF) in the Western region of Ghana are affected by a combination of climate and non-climate stressors. Coastal communities are particularly vulnerable to these stressors because of their proximity to the sea and high dependence on small-scale fisheries for their livelihoods. A better understanding of how fishing communities, particularly SSCF, respond to climate and non-climate stressors is paramount to improve planning and implementation of effective adaptation action. Drawing on the capitals framework, this study examines the adaptive capacity of SSCF to the combined effects of climate-related (increasing coastal erosion, and wave and storm frequency) and non-climate-related stressors (declining catches; scarcity and prohibitive cost of fuel; inconsiderate implementation of fisheries laws and policies; competition from the oil and gas industry; sand mining; and algal blooms). The findings show how fishers mobilise and use adaptive capacity through exploitation of various forms of capital, including cultural capital (e.g., local innovation); political capital (e.g., lobbying government and local authorities); social capital (e.g., collective action); human capital (e.g., local leadership); and natural capital (e.g., utilising beach sand) to respond to multiple stressors. Nevertheless, in many cases, fishers' responses were reactive and led to negative (maladaptive) outcomes. Furthermore, this study underscores the importance of critically considering the interactive nature of capitals and how they collectively influence adaptive capacity in the planning and implementation of adaptation research, policy and practice.	adaptation; adaptive capacity; capitals; climate change; fisheries; ghana
7263	Responses of water insecure coastal communities of Tanzania to climate change impacts. Is it incremental or transformative adaptation?	Climate change is one of the greatest environmental challenges of the twenty-first century that requires significant responses. Its impacts have already been felt and projected to cause more impacts on sectors essential for economic development including freshwater resources. Although it is becoming clear that transformative adaptation is indispensable as climate change impacts increase, most adaptation strategies have largely been envisioned to be incremental with little attention to transformative adaptation. To fill part of such information gap, this paper assessed if responses of water insecure coastal communities of Tanzania are incremental or transformative. Simple random sampling procedure was used to obtain 97 households, while purposive sampling procedure was used to select key informants. Quantitative data were subjected to descriptive statistics, whereas qualitative data were analysed through content analysis. Results indicated that water security has decreased in the past 30 years. Most response strategies used by people in the area are incremental, weak and undesirable for effective as well as successful adaptation to climate change. This study recommends for development practitioners and other stakeholders to help local people institute transformative adaptation.	climate change; transformative adaptation; incremental adaptation; water insecurity; coastal communities; tanzania
155838	Flood risk assessment due to cyclone-induced dike breaching in coastal areas of Bangladesh	Bangladesh, one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world, has a dynamic delta with 123 polders protected by earthen dikes. Cyclone-induced storm surges cause severe damage to these polders by overtopping and breaching the dikes. A total of 19 major tropical storms have hit the coast in the last 50 years, and the storm frequency is likely to increase due to climate change. The present paper presents an investigation of the inundation pattern in a protected area behind dikes due to floods caused by storm surges and identifies possible critical locations of dike breaches. Polder 48 in the coastal region, also known as Kuakata, was selected as the study area. A HEC-RAS 1-D-2-D hydrodynamic model was developed to simulate inundation of the polder under different scenarios. Scenarios were developed by considering tidal variations, the angle of the cyclone at landfall, possible dike breach locations and sea level rise due to climate change according to the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). A storm surge for a cyclone event with a 1-in-25-year return period was considered for all the scenarios. The primary objective of this research was to present a methodology for identifying the critical location of dike breaching, generating a flood risk map (FRM) and a probabilistic flood map (PFM) for the breaching of dikes during a cyclone. The critical location of the dike breach among the chosen possible locations was identified by comparing the inundation extent and damage due to flooding corresponding to the developed scenarios. A FRM corresponding to the breaching in the critical location was developed, which indicated that settlements adjacent to the canals in the polders were exposed to higher risk. A PFM was developed using the simulation results corresponding to the developed scenarios, which was used to recommend the need of appropriate land use zoning to minimize the vulnerability to flooding. The developed hydrodynamic model can be used to forecast inundation, to identify critical locations of the dike requiring maintenance and to study the effect of climate change on flood inundation in the study area. The frequency and intensity of the cyclones around the world are likely to increase due to climate change, which will require resource-intensive improvement of existing or new protection structures for the deltas. The identification and prioritization of the maintenance of critical locations of dike breaching can potentially prevent a disaster. The use of non-structural tools such as land use zoning with the help of flood risk maps and probabilistic flood maps has the potential to reduce risk and damage. The method presented in this research can potentially be utilized for deltas around the world to reduce vulnerability and flood risk due to dike breaching caused by cyclone-induced storm surge.	NA
6100	Unavoidable solutions for coastal adaptation in Reunion Island (Indian Ocean)	The study of recent past trajectories of vulnerability to climate-related hazards allows for highlighting the prevailing environmental and anthropogenic drivers that operated over the last fifty to sixty years and given latency phenomena in social systems, therefore have the potential to continue driving a system's vulnerability in the coming decades. Stop or even reverse these trends represents as much unavoidable solutions for enhancing concrete long-term adaptation to climate change, whatever the end-century warming scenario. Using the case study of Reunion Island (Indian Ocean), we emphasize four major drivers of the recent coastal trajectory of vulnerability, i.e. changes in human-built assets, shoreline position, natural buffers' characteristics, and the extent of coastal protection structures. Together, these drivers highlight the need for controlling the urbanisation process to reduce the anthropogenic pressures exerted on morphological-ecological systems, restoring the buffering function of the latter, and moving towards a less hard structure-dependent coastal defence strategy. Such a shift in coastal management however supposes some radical changes in the way coastal development strategies consider environmental issues (hazards, resources and services). Here we bring empirical material showing that neither Reunion Island decision-makers are keen to drive such radical changes, nor the population is ready to accept potentially constraining policies that will have benefits only in the future. We conclude on the need for further advancing the design of adaptation pathways that build on the implementation of context-specific unavoidable solutions, and thus that seriously consider limiting the risk of maladaptation as a baseline strategy.	vulnerability; adaptation; climate change; coastal areas; small islands
235349	Coastal climate change and aging communities in Atlantic Canada: A methodological overview of community asset and social vulnerability mapping	Coastal climate change is challenging communities to adapt. More frequent and extreme weather events leading to coastal area flooding and other hazards can present a risk for residents and the infrastructure and services they rely on. This is particularly the case for vulnerable populations such as seniors. Nova Scotia is experiencing this confluence of factors; it has rural and remote coastal communities and the oldest population of any province in Canada. Our spatial study examines these dynamics in five rural and small town municipalities in Lunenburg and Annapolis counties. We combine population model projections and coastal sea rise scenarios to the year 2025-2026 with community asset, infrastructure, and residential property mapping and a review of municipal policies. We forward a framework for understanding coastal climate change impacts on key infrastructure, services, and assets that are relied upon by an older population as well as the current and potential municipal planning responses. We find that critical assets important to older populations are impacted by coastal climate change in our study areas and time frame. This article shares our research methods and findings with the aim of helping communities map change and plan for the future.	coastal climate change; aging friendly communities; nova scotia; population projection; asset mapping
238	Climate change adaptation in the Pacific Island tourism sector: analysing the policy environment in Vanuatu	Tourism is a growing economic sector in the South Pacific providing the region with great potential for economic development. Vanuatu and its neighbouring Small Island Developing States and Territories experience a high vulnerability to climate change impacts. The tourism sector in Vanuatu is particularly vulnerable, and it needs to develop and implement effective adaptation strategies to reduce climate change risks. Policies play an important role by providing the platform on which adaptation can occur and resilience be built. This study examines the policy environment in Vanuatu for its conduciveness to climate change adaptation. It identifies the types of adaptation processes (explicit or implicit) and types of adaptation measures (technical, business management, behavioural, policy, and research and education) and critically analyses the current tourism-related policies for their effectiveness in assisting the sector to address climate change. It is found that the majority of policies identified deal with climate change through implicit adaptation processes and mainly through the use of policy and research and education measures. The authors argue that in order to strengthen the resilience of the tourism industry, the Government of Vanuatu needs to develop and implement explicit climate change adaptation policies for the tourism sector.	tourism; climate change; adaptation; adaptive capacity; policies; vanuatu
257953	Unravelling coastal people’s adaptation to salinity: Evidence from Bangladesh	Salinity as a slow onset climate change induced disaster is affecting coastal agriculture in multifarious ways. This study intends to explore various adaptation strategies that coastal people adopt to cope with the increasing saline water intrusion. To serve this purpose, the study conducted a survey with 318 landless people, 195 women and 123 men, selected purposively from two southwest coastal villages of Bangladesh. A five-point ordinal level Likert scale has been used to analyse data. Change in land use pattern, use of modern technology in agriculture, diversification of crops and income sources, using savings and harvesting rainwater were some of the adaptation strategies common in the study areas. The study found that women’s ability to adapt is seriously compromised by their limited access to capital. So it is vital that the government take up specific programmes to enhance their adaptation capacity through increasing income generating activities and credit opportunities. Copyright © 2018 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.	agricultural robots;  agriculture;  disasters;  land use;  planning;  saline water;  sustainable development, adaptation capacity;  adaptation strategies;  bangladesh;  capital;  coastal people;  environment;  gender;  salinity, climate change
5374	Seafood Safety and Human Health Implications	Current projections for the twenty-first century show that global warming will accelerate, with stronger storms, extreme precipitation, dry spells and rising sea levels as the primary symptoms. Such changes will have implications in seafood production, security, and safety, as well as in human health, due to the increase in the frequency of harmful algal blooms, levels and bioaccumulation of several chemical contaminants, prevalence and virulence of common foodborne pathogenic microorganisms. The Mediterranean will be particularly affected by climate change due to water scarcity in the region. Assuring seafood safety in such scenario requires the active involvement of all stakeholders to elaborate and implement adaptation and mitigation plans. In this context, the current chapter aims to provide an overview of the potential effects of climate change in the Mediterranean seafood safety and human health, taking into account chemical and biological contaminants, and to discuss potential adaptation and mitigation measures.	climate change; seafood safety; benefit and risk assessment; adaptation; mitigation
89780	Coastal communities and ITQ management. The case of Icelandic fisheries	Fisheries management by individual transferable catch quotas is being promoted as an idea basis for sustainable development in the fisheries. In Iceland, where ITQs have been introduced along with other free marker oriented policies, quota holdings ?re being concentrated on trawler companies and there has lately been a major build-up of offshore fishing capacity, The inshore fleet is being reduced, and many fishing communities are suffering from substantial loss of quota shares. The distributional effects of ITQ management are extensive, and it may be called into question whether the Icelandic fisheries are moving towards sustainable development.	NA
