id	title	abstract	keywords
9529	Coastal Defense Strategies in the Wadden Sea Region: Coping with Climate Change	Recent floods such as the one in New Orleans (2005), the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report and extreme weather events all influence the way people perceive the problem of climate change and the necessity for action. We analyzed the coastal defense policy in three Wadden Sea countries, The Netherlands, Germany, and Denmark. We looked at policy development in relationship to the anticipated climate change. We combined literature research on legislation and management with interviews of 11 decision makers in the areas of coastal defense and land-use planning policy. We found that coastal defense policy relies mainly on dikes and sand nourishments in the current defense strategy. In anticipation of climate change, some efforts are being made to develop alternative solutions. Land-use planning is involved in flood defense to a limited extent only. As long as budgets and technical solutions can keep the Wadden Sea region safe from major flood disasters, we found it unlikely that any fundamental policy shift will occur. There are, however, initiatives for improved management solutions.	climate changes; coastal management; planning; germany; netherlands; denmark
6029	Climate Change Mitigation for Coastal Communities	Over recent decades, Boston has been affected by several tidal floods due to sea level rise. In addition to hurricanes, Sandy and Irene, are the storms occurring at high tide bringing damaging floods to coastal communities, causing major damage to the historical neighborhoods and developing areas, specifically, new Seaport District. Like other historical ports in the United States, most of Boston, including the new Seaport District, has neighborhoods/commercial districts built on filled coastline. Within recent years, the Seaport District has experienced significant economic increase in businesses/residents. This area has been revived and a thriving community has formed. However, solid mitigation to handle extreme weather and rising seawater is lacking. During the winter storms on 2018 in which the rising sea water flooded neighborhoods, Boston saw the storm surge as a threat to continual development in the Seaport District and around the city. One great storm surge could cause enormous economic damage to the city's coastlines. Several towns in Massachusetts have adopted their own mitigation plans. Boston is researching and exploring the economic and life safety issues to address or prepare for the changing climate. Adopting a formal plan is vital to preserving and protecting Boston's rich history and neighborhoods. This paper addresses mitigation measures to form a robust plan for policy makers, useful recommendations for engineers and designers working on infrastructure/buildings in coastal communities. These mitigation measures include protecting life safety equipment, MEP services/equipment, structural durability, accessibility with flood events, functional design recommendations for at-risk buildings, and retention.	NA
234131	SUSTAINABLE COASTAL DEVELOPMENT: PROTECT OR RETREAT?	Most coastal cities will, at some stage very soon, have to confront the decision about whether to protect their shoreline or retreat from it. The devastating effects of sea level rise and increased storm frequency and severity causing coastal erosion are becoming a regular feature of news reports. The images of coastal houses being battered by the sea must be giving coastal property owners cause to reflect on the (in) security of their investment, and increasing the demands on local administrators to take action. Hard protection (walls, groynes, reefs) is expensive, vulnerable to damage and usually has adverse downstream effects. The costs of protection must be weighed against the value of the protected property and infrastructure. Many small cities built on the coast have limited financial resources available to protect their coastal boundaries. In New Zealand many local authorities are grappling with this dilemma. By identifying hazard zones where future development must be restricted, they are being criticised and challenged in court for adversely affecting property values on the basis of uncertain future predictions. So what mechanisms are available for sustainable coastal development? This paper explores development restrictions, tenure restrictions and sustainable solutions for dealing with property at risk of loss by sea erosion. It concludes that city administrators must work closely with coastal communities and property owners to decide on appropriate interventions.	coastal development; precautionary principle; land tenure; community engagement; dunedin
13412	Climate Change Adaptation Measures in the Coastal City of Semarang, Indonesia: Current Practices and Performance	Indonesia is among the most vulnerable countries to climate change due to its coastlines, high concentration of population and economic activity in coastal areas. In addition, the impacts of climate change have had severe environmental and socio-economic consequences. Adaptation measures are required to minimize the impacts. Some climate change adaptation measures have been practiced in the coastal cities of Indonesia. This article aims to examine the current practices and performance of local adaptation measures in the coastal city of Semarang City. The current adaptation practices include an integration of climate resilience strategy into city planning and a physical adaptation strategy for the tidal flood hazard. It is found that the performance of each adaptation measures has different outcomes depending on the typology of adaptation. Cooperation and a strong commitment amongst stakeholders as well as building adaptive capacity of local people and authority are significantly required.	adaptation measures; climate change; coastal city; semarang
722	Caribbean beach changes and climate change adaptation	Beach monitoring data are presented and show an average beach erosion trend of 0.5 m yr -1 in eight Caribbean islands over the period 1985-2000, with elevated rates in those islands impacted by a higher number of hurricanes. The data are based on 5 to 15 years of continuous monitoring, conducted at three-month intervals, at 113 beaches (200 profile sites) on eight islands, using standard methodology. The causes of the erosion are discussed and include anthropogenic factors, climate variability and projected climate change. Based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change projections for the Caribbean region, and the likely increase of anthropogenic stresses such as coastal development, it is likely that the beach erosion trend will continue and increase. Nonexclusive approaches to help beaches adapt to climate change include structural, planning or ecological measures. Two case studies illustrating climate change adaptation measures are discussed, one focuses on coastal planning measures in Anguilla and Nevis, and the second focuses on ecological measures, specifically the rehabilitation of a coastal forest in Puerto Rico. These case studies have not reached a stage where their effectiveness can be evaluated, however preliminary outcomes show that community-based climate change adaptation measures require careful planning such that the entire community is involved in a participatory manner and sufficient time is allocated for awareness-raising, information-sharing and discussion.	NA
11307	Supporting Local and Traditional Knowledge with Science for Adaptation to Climate Change: Lessons Learned from Participatory Three-Dimensional Modeling in BoeBoe, Solomon Islands	Coastal communities in the Coral Triangle are increasingly threatened by climate change. Sea-level rise (SLR) will result in biophysical and socioeconomic impacts that could increase the loss of livelihoods, cultural heritage and infrastructure. Effective adaptation requires a holistic approach that incorporates scientific knowledge together with local and traditional knowledge. Community-based adaptation built on local knowledge is of great value for environmental management, particularly when scientific data are lacking. This article reports a case study that integrated traditional and scientific knowledge using participatory three-dimensional modeling (P3DM) in BoeBoe village, Solomon Islands. P3DM is a process by which members of the local community build a physical terrain model and overlay it with the location of important resources such as protected areas or harvesting sites. Additionally, SLR inundation scenarios based on surveyed elevations were incorporated into a geographic information system (GIS), allowing for a real-time integration of science with local knowledge. Despite discrepancies in scales and accuracy, information from both the P3DM and GIS were complementary. The process, itself, provided a forum for discussion between many members of the village who would normally not be involved and highlighted the importance of community engagement when building capacity for adaptation to climate change.	adaptation; climate change; coral triangle; dem; gis; pacific; p3dm; solomon islands
744	Climate change knowledge at the grass roots: the case of Bequia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines	This study examines perception of households to climate change and factors that influence the selection of adaptation measures. Using survey data, the results suggest that households are knowledgeable and concerned about climate change but lack knowledge about the measures needed to adapt. The results also suggest that the risk and importance placed on climate change, vulnerability experienced with household flooding, drainage and expected threat of future sea level are the main factors that influence the adaptation decision. The results obtained in this study are beneficial to all as adaptation requires a collective effort by stakeholders.	adaptation; bequia; multiple linear regression; perception
5918	Prepared for change? An assessment of the current state of knowledge to support climate adaptation for Australian fisheries	Fisheries and marine ecosystems are challenged globally by climate change with subsequent biological and socio-ecological implications. Adaptation represents one pathway by which management agencies can seek to ensure sustainability of these resources for societal well-being, particularly when based on strong scientific evidence. Here, we examined the extent of primary scientific literature that is currently available to inform climate adaption initiatives for Australian fisheries. This is achieved via a systematic literature review for 99 harvested Australian marine species, aimed at identifying primary scientific articles that reported new knowledge of climate-driven biological changes and/or socio-ecological implications. We then assessed the quantity of scientific literature against estimated relative climate sensitivity scores for each species (from a previous study), and investigated factors that may influence relative research effort. We found that two-thirds of species had no peer-reviewed climate-related literature available, and that research effort among Australian fisheries species is most closely related to the number of commercial fish stocks per species, and commercial catch weight. We also found that the south-east and western Australian regions had the most climate-related biological information to support climate adaptation in fisheries management. Nonetheless, although accumulating knowledge of the biological and socio-ecological implications of climate change is important, increasing knowledge alone is insufficient to maintain the productivity and profitability of Australian fisheries in light of projected climate impacts. We suggest that the further use of this knowledge to inform decision-making processes is essential to ensure that climate adaptation options are fully explored, to allow sustainable and productive fisheries.	adaptation; climate change; fisheries; management; research effort
245479	Blue Economy: Community Case Studies Addressing the Poverty-Environment Nexus in Ocean and Coastal Management	The objective of this paper is to examine how local practices of blue economy succeed in addressing the poverty-environment nexus in coastal communities. While many disciplines touch upon the concept of blue economy, little literature exists on how a sustainable blue economy approach can help bridge poverty-environment challenges, particularly at the community level. To illustrate this, we present three case studies of blue economy practices initiated and implemented by coastal communities in China, Samoa, and Vietnam. The outcomes from each case study are examined based on both their environmental and socio-economic impact. Lessons learned include the significant role of science and technology in innovating solutions, the crucial impact of community leaders in encouraging and amplifying both local needs and solutions, continuous advocacy, fulfilling the very important need for communities to witness tangible benefits of project implementation, and last but not least the availability of resources and know-how resulting from multi-stakeholder partnerships including local governing councils, NGOs, and community members. Local communities have an unrecognized potential for adaptation and innovation and that more proactive public policies are required to achieve environmental and poverty reduction objectives simultaneously.	blue economy; ocean governance; international development; local communities; coastal management; ocean sustainability
144	Climate vulnerability, impacts and adaptation in Central and South America coastal areas	Low-Elevation Coastal Zones in Central and South America are exposed to climate-related hazards (sea-level rise, climate variability and storms) which threaten the assets (people, resources, ecosystems, infrastructure, and the services they provide), and are expected to increase due to climate change. A non-systematic review is presented focusing on vulnerability elements, impacts, constraints to adaptation, and their possible strategies. The analysis emphasises the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Reasons for Concern (e.g., threatened systems, extreme events, aggregated impacts, and critical thresholds), particularly on sea-level rise, degradation of mangroves, and invasive alien species in Central and South America focusing on case studies from Uruguay and Venezuela. Despite recent advances in coastal adaptation planning in Central and South America, there is an adaptation deficit in the implementation of measures and strategies against climate-related hazards, such as sea-level rise. Adaptation constraints are linked with poverty, resource allocation, lack of political will, and lack of early warning systems for climate-related hazards. Non-structural adaptation measures such as community-based adaptation and ecosystem-based adaptation are not fully mainstreamed into national plans yet. Government-level initiatives (e.g. National Adaptation Programmes of Action) are being developed, but a few are already implemented. In addition to specific thematic measures, the implementation of non-structural approaches, National Adaptation Programmes of Action and early warning systems, based on the reasons for concern, should foster adaptive capacity in coastal areas. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	coastal ecosystems; climate-related hazards; reasons for concern; mangroves; invasive alien species; adaptation strategies
9528	Adaptation benefits and costs of raising coastal buildings under storm-tide inundation in South East Queensland, Australia	Pathways of adapting the built assets for future risk reduction are highly uncertain because of changes in socio-economic trends and climate. To provide solid foundation for better adaptation planning, this paper presents a statistical approach to investigate the future direct damage loss and the benefit of adaptation through elevating building floors of residential and commercial buildings affected by storm-tide hazard and sea-level rise in South East Queensland, Australia, particularly the implication of different extents of adaptation to policies. Because of projected socio-economic growth, it was found that, if considered separately, building stock growth causes twice as large as sea-level rise does to the potential damage loss. Adaptation by elevating new buildings alone is more cost-effective and socially acceptable than by elevating both new and old buildings. It is concluded that even with limited adaptation, immediate but less long-term net benefits could be achieved by focusing adaptation on the most vulnerable coastal housing. Somewhat pre-emptive adaptation that lifts more coastal housing in wider coastal area in the immediate term to accommodate future storm tides gives longer-term net benefits, though incurs higher adaptation costs. However, too much over-adapting may be undesirable as it incurs unreasonably high initial and on-going costs while the benefits of it could only be reaped over unrealistically long time. Geographical extent of asset adaptation should be decided in accordance with the planning time horizon to avoid either under- or over-adaptation.	NA
143855	Effective International Knowledge Exchange to Rehabilitate Rivers in Urban Delta's with RDM approach	In coastal and low-lying vulnerable delta cities, such as the Rotterdam Metropolitan region and Metropolitan Manila, there has been an increase in vulnerability of urban flooding and water quality problems. New approaches address the current and future effects of climate change and increase urban quality, reduce vulnerability and increase water quality. New arrangements for international cooperation are set up in order to address these problems in the project `IWASTO' ('to correct and to prevent') where several organisations from the Philippines and The Netherlands join forces to rehabilitate rivers and introduce new innovations for water quality monitoring and waste collection using the `Research Design and Manufacaturing (RDM)' approach. One of the concrete results from this RDM approach in 2016 is the development and implementation of the `Longganisa', a waste collection tool that was designed by a Dutch Philippine team. In addition, the waterquality was measured and mapped with innovating methods using apps in order to locate and prioritize highly polluted areas. In the near future measures will be implemented to rehabilitate the rivers in Manila and a knowledge exchange forum will be set up to share the best management practices on international scale in countries as Indonesia, India and China.	NA
88174	Assessment of the vulnerability of Venezuela to sea-level rise	The goal of this study is to assess the vulnerability of 5 sectors of the coast of Venezuela to potential sea-level rise using the methodology proposed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Sea-level rise resulting from thermal expansion of the oceans and melting of glaciers is viewed as one of the main impacts of climate changes. A 0.5 m rise scenario for the year 2100 was used for this study. A modified version of the Brunn Rule was used to estimate land loss due to erosion. Land loss due to inundation was considered for the case of lowlands. According to the assessments performed, land loss due to erosion in the 5 coastal areas chosen for the study (20.07 km(2)) would be less than that due to inundation (52.63 km(2)). Oil infrastructure, urban areas, and tourist infrastructure, all of which are essential to the national economy, would be affected. The areas with more population at risk would be the Costa Oriental del Lago de Maracaibo (eastern coast of Maracaibo Lake) and Costa Oriental del Estado Falcon (eastern coast of Falcon State). The former has the highest capital value at risk, followed by Barcelona-Puerto La Cruz-Guanta. Assuming a `No Protection' response and a 0.5 m sealevel rise, approximately 131.13 km(2) would be lost. If the `important Areas Protection' option was implemented, only 86.16 km(2) (US\$ 15000 million) would be lost. The vulnerability of these coastal areas could be reduced by more appropriate planning and management.	venezuela; climate change; sea-level rise; land loss; coastal erosion; coastal inundation
504	Climate Adaptation for Tropical Island Land Stewardship Adapting a Workshop Planning Process to Hawai'i	Adaptation Planning and Practices for Hawai'i Forests and Native Ecosystems What: More than 40 participants, representing federal and state government agencies, non-governmental organizations, academia, and private landholders met remotely to receive practical training in considering climate change information and identifying adaptation actions for natural resources management professionals working in forests and native Hawaiian ecosystems. When: 26 January-16 March 2021 Where: Virtual, hosted by the Northern Institute of Applied Climate Science	ecology; tropics; climate variability; adaptation
74896	What restoration schemes can do? Or, getting it right without fisheries transferable quotas	Under the Individual Transferable Quota (ITQ) schemes, the economic calculations fail to reflect a just distribution of wealth and results in deprivation of the public trust of fisheries. Some ``neoclassic{'' economists claim that ITQs cost-efficiently eliminate the tragedy of the commons. However, Norwegian cost-benefit studies indicate a financial loss for second-generation ITQ owners due to the high price of tradable quotas. The financial burden caused by ITQs creates overfishing and pressure on the fishing stocks, which puts coastal municipalities at risk. If future fisheries are given legal protection, the losses due to hazardous fishing or overexploiting stocks is the fisherman's liability. Restoration schemes within the framework of total allowable catch (TAC) are an alternative to ITQs that may prevent resource depletion and the ``tragedy of the commons.{''	individual transferable quotas (itqs); resource depletion; restoration schemes; the robbery of the commons
9485	Interrogating Climate Adaptation Financing in Zimbabwe: Proposed Direction	Reducing vulnerability to climate change and enhancing the long-term coping capacities of rural or urban settlements to negative climate change impacts have become urgent issues in developing countries. Developing countries do not have the means to cope with climate hazards and their economies are highly dependent on climate-sensitive sectors such as agriculture, water, and coastal zones. Like most countries in Southern Africa, Zimbabwe suffers from climate-induced disasters. Therefore, this study maps critical aspects required for setting up a strong financial foundation for sustainable climate adaptation in Zimbabwe. It discusses the frameworks required for sustainable climate adaptation finance and suggests the direction for success in leveraging global climate financing towards building a low-carbon and climate-resilient Zimbabwe. The study involved a document review and analysis and stakeholder consultation methodological approach. The findings revealed that Zimbabwe has been significantly dependent on global finance mechanisms to mitigate the effects of climate change as its domestic finance mechanisms have not been fully explored. Results revealed the importance of partnership models between the state, individuals, civil society organisations, and agencies. Local financing institutions such as the Infrastructure Development Bank of Zimbabwe (IDBZ) have been set up. This operates a Climate Finance Facility (GFF), providing a domestic financial resource base. A climate change bill is also under formulation through government efforts. However, numerous barriers limit the adoption of adaptation practices, services, and technologies at the scale required. The absence of finance increases the vulnerability of local settlements (rural or urban) to extreme weather events leading to loss of life and property and compromised adaptive capacity. Therefore, the study recommends an adaptation financing framework aligned to different sectoral policies that can leverage diverse opportunities such as blended climate financing. The framework must foster synergies for improved impact and implementation of climate change adaptation initiatives for the country.	adaptive capacity; climate change adaptation; policy; adaptation finance; resilience; sustainability; vulnerability; global south; wealthier countries; developing countries
12857	Elaborating a people-centered approach to understanding sustainable livelihoods under climate and environmental change: Thang Binh District, Quang Nam Province, Vietnam	This paper explores the maintenance of livelihoods under climate, environmental, and economic development pressures, through the case of Thang Binh District in Quang Nam Province, Vietnam. Within widespread recognition of the need to link sustainable livelihoods approaches with climate change adaptation, there is growing awareness of the importance of people-centered approaches which keep the diverse experience, capabilities, and knowledges of the most vulnerable at the heart of sustainable livelihoods thinking. In response, this paper explores the conditions for changes in modes of livelihoods in a case study area where top-down strategies for sustainable livelihoods are met with residents' diverse experiences of vulnerability, and where climate and environmental changes shape residents' relations with the landscape. The research is undertaken via interviews with residents, farmers/fishers, and local government officials. Our study finds that whilst government-led initiatives for sustainable livelihoods are welcomed in the locality, inflexible policies can make it challenging for the most vulnerable people to access support. Moreover, residents see the capacity to live with and respond to extreme weather events as a critical component of maintaining a sustainable livelihood. Our findings reinforce international literature, showing that `the poor' are not a homogenous category, and illustrate the importance of attention to the smallest levels of government who are tasked with putting sustainable livelihoods initiatives into practice in relation to people's daily lives.	climate change; coastal communities; quang nam province; sustainable livelihoods; vietnam
10762	Gender-Based Experiences and Perceptions after the 2010 Winter Storms in Atlantic Canada	This paper conveys the findings of the first phase of a longitudinal study into climate change adaptation in Atlantic Canada. Men and women from 10 coastal communities in three provinces (Quebec, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island) were interviewed to better understand how both sexes perceived and reacted to extreme weather events. Their responses were recorded based on their experiences, personal and community levels of preparedness, as well as help received and effects on their lives. Most importantly, the findings denote that more men were personally prepared and more active in the community than women. More men recognized a deficiency in help at the community level, and were critical of government in particular, addressing a lack of financial interventions and support. Women were forthcoming with their emotions, admitting to feeling fear and worry, and their perceptions in terms of impacts and actions were closer to home. The results support what others have shown that in rural and coastal communities the traditional division of labor may influence and lead to a gender bias in terms of actions and gradual adaptation in communities. There is a need to better understand how these sometimes subtle differences may affect decisions that do not always consider women's roles and experiences in the face of extreme events.	climate change adaptation; natural hazards; climate-based events; flooding; experiences; responses; gender mainstreaming
5986	Designing Managed Retreat Policy for an Uncertain Future	While effective in mitigating the effects of hazards, Australia's State and local jurisdictions have been reluctant to endorse the removal of people and structures from hazard-prone coastal land, known as ``managed retreat{''}, as a climate change adaptation policy. Its implementation represents a significant intrusion into private property interests, which is further complicated by the uncertainty surrounding future sea-level rise and the timing of coastal hazards. This article reviews the body of legal scholarship on managed retreat. It provides a general overview of the prevailing themes, before examining the extent the literature informs policy design matters, with a focus on how the law can affect retreat; when removal from vulnerable land should occur; and criteria for constructing a policy response. The article concludes by recommending future research directions for advancing managed retreat as public policy.	NA
245451	Livelihood resilience of riverine island dwellers in the face of natural disasters: Empirical evidence from Bangladesh	Livelihood resilience is becoming a popular research and policy agenda in the context of development as well as climate change adaptation. In Bangladesh, riverine island (char) dwellers are isolated from the mainland and most vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. This study intends to explore the livelihood resilience of vulnerable char dwellers by employing Resilience Index Measurement and Analysis (RIMA) model. Survey data were obtained from 374 char households using semi-structured questionnaire to know their resilience capacities (adaptive, absorptive and transformative capacity). This study reveals that char dwellers have a poor level of resilience which made them unable to withstand against any adverse effect of natural disasters. Char dwellers however, residing near to the mainland area displayed relatively more resilience (0.353) than that of the distant char areas (0.347). The major limiting factors of livelihood resilience in the char areas include access to food, income and health facilities, agricultural and non-agricultural assets, and adoption of technology which need to be improved for the survival of the char dwellers. Capacity building program through activating local government, NGOs intervention and public-private partnership should be triggered to enhance the resilience of the char dwellers across Bangladesh.	livelihood resilience index; adaptive capacity; disaster management; land use system; climate change
250379	Climate-friendly business: A study to assess its potential in the coastal areas of Bangladesh	Climate change is accelerating with adverse impacts on less developed and developing countries, mainly where industrialization and economic development are growing worldwide. However, the consequences of climate change and vulnerabilities are not equal for all countries and communities in the world, triggering people in vulnerable areas to improve their economic condition. Bangladesh is experiencing the impacts of climate change as one of the most vulnerable countries, where people in coastal areas face a scarcity of resources. Hence, the coastal areas need climate-friendly business plans to promote sustainable resource utilization while protecting the environment. Following the background, we conducted this study to understand the people's perception of the potential of climate-friendly business in the coastal areas of Bangladesh. We also uncovered the scopes and challenges, including setting the priority of the related issues through a SWOT (Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, and Threat) analysis. We conducted 110 individual surveys, eight focus group discussions, and ten key informant interviews in Khulna and Barishal districts of Bangladesh. Our findings reveal that changing rainfall patterns affect people's income sources, where 96\% of the people identify that the increasing rate of disasters hampers their livelihood. Also, 53.64\% of the people are unaware of climate-friendly business concepts, and 85.45\% of the people positively support girls doing business in the community. Besides, the engagement of young people in the climate-friendly industry appears as a strength, whereas financial crisis and lack of training are weaknesses. Therefore, support of non-government organizations may emerge as an opportunity. On the other hand, the impact of the increasing rate and intensity of disasters may fall as a threat in the future. Consequently, a collaboration of government, non-government and local communities is needed to ensure the prospects of climate-friendly businesses in the coastal areas of Bangladesh.	bangladesh; business; climate change; coastal area; disasters
236925	Main Title: Environment, Ecosystem and Climate Change Title: Urban Transformation of Coastal Cities-Case Study of the Eko Atlantic Shoreline Protection and Reclamation Project	This paper examines how the land reclamation and development of the Eko Atlantic Shoreline Protection and Reclamation Project affect communities on the Lagos coastline. It suggests mitigating tools as a re-vitalization planning strategy to preserve, manage and protect the Lagos coastline beaches that have become endangered. The controversial Eko Atlantic project which is portrayed by Lagos State Government (LASG) and developers as a model of sustainability, climate change adaptation and economic growth, is an example for the difficult process of reconciling the three conflicting interests of protecting the environment, promoting economic development and striving for social justice for all.	NA
332	Internal relocation as a relevant and feasible adaptation strategy in Rangiroa Atoll, French Polynesia	Atoll islands face increasing coastal risks (coastal erosion and marine flooding) due to climate change, especially sea-level rise. To face increasing coastal risks, various adaptation options are considered by atoll countries and territories, including in particular hard protection (preferred option to date), Nature-based Solutions (increasingly used) and island raising (considered a longer-term solution and a potential alternative to international migration, e.g. in the Maldives). Internal relocation within the same atoll island or atoll, which refers to long-term community movement from one threatened island area or island to a safer island area or island, has previously been disregarded by scholars as a potentially relevant climate adaptation strategy. However, in low-lying coastal areas, it offers real potential to address the dual context of increasing climate risks and the shrinking of the solution space. This paper assesses the potential of internal relocation for atolls by applying to Rangiroa Atoll, French Polynesia, Central Pacific, a two-fold assessment framework questioning its physical relevance (are some islands high enough to host settlements in the future?) and its societal feasibility (are the political-institutional and socio-economic conditions in place? Are people willing to relocate?). The findings show that internal relocation is both relevant and feasible on Rangiroa Atoll and should therefore serve as a pillar to develop robust in situ adaptation pathways in this atoll.	NA
102559	How Does the Diversity of Divers Affect the Design of Citizen Science Projects?	Divers have widely participated in citizen science (CS) projects and are one of the main groups of marine citizen scientists. However, there is little knowledge about profiles of, and incentives for potential divers to join CS projects. To date, most studies have focused on the SCUBA diving industry; nevertheless, there is a diversity of divers, not all using SCUBA, who engage in different activities during their dives. Differences in diver profiles could affect their willingness and ability to contribute to CS. In this study, we compare the diving profile, interests, preferences and motivations to participate in CS of five diver types (artisanal fishermen, recreational divers, instructors, scientific divers, and others). All divers have strong interests in participating in CS projects, with no major differences among diver types. In general, they are interested in a wide variety of themes related to CS but they prefer simple sampling protocols. Divers are motivated to participate in CS to learn about the sea and contribute to science. Some important differences among diver types were found, with artisanal fishermen having significantly more dive experience than other diver types, but less free time during their dives and limited access to some communication channels and technologies. These characteristics make them ideal partners to contribute their local ecological knowledge (LEK) to local CS projects. In contrast, recreational divers have the least experience but most free time during their dives and good access to cameras and communications channels, making them suitable partners for large-scale CS projects that do not require a high level of species knowledge. Instructors and scientific divers are well-placed to coordinate and supervise CS activities. The results confirm that divers are not all alike and specific considerations have to be taken into account to improve the contribution of each diver type to CS. The findings provide essential information for the design of different types of CS projects. By considering the relevant incentives and opportunities for diverse diver groups, marine CS projects will make efficient gains in volunteer recruitment, retention, and collaborative generation of knowledge about the marine environment.	participatory science; subtidal; scuba; fishermen; recreational divers
265929	Ridge to reef to peace and development	Mindanao is known as the food basket of the Philippines with its abundant agri-fishery production. Fertile soil and excellent climate make it as the agri-fishery export zone of the country. Yet, climate change has brought a drastic shift on Mindanao’s popularity making it exposed to risks associated to natural disaster, such as typhoons, flooding, mudslides and earthquakes. The occurrence of super typhoons in 2011 and 2012 had caused significant damages to agriculture, infrastructure and dwellers. This new normal prompted the Mindanao Development Authority (MinDA) to revolutionise the ridge-to-reef approach through the Mindanao Nurturing Our Waters Program as a holistic and integrated approach to the preservation, utilisation, restoration, rehabilitation and development of natural resources. This study was an attempt to answer the questions: (1) would the ridge-to-reef approach be appropriate for Mindanao with the emergence of a new normal? And (2) what mechanism can aptly implement the approach? This study employed qualitative research using scoping, metasynthesis, focus group discussions and expert panel discussions. Results revealed various environmental issues that impact on economy, land use, energy, agriculture, marine life, health and budget. Many agencies are involved in environment and natural resource management, resulting to overlaps and conflicts. In addressing the challenges, it was revealed that MinDA is effective and credible as a mechanism in steering and providing strategic directions and partnerships among actors. Thus, the out-of-the-box wave of ridge-to-reef approach through the Mindanao Nurturing Our Waters Program is appropriate in Mindanao context under an inclusive and transformative leadership of a subnational agency. © Springer India 2015.	NA
813	Testing RISC-KIT's integrated approach for assessing Disaster Risk Reduction measures on the coast of Kristianstad, Sweden	This article reflects upon the experiences of testing the Resilience-Increasing Strategies for Coasts - toolKIT (RISC-KIT), an integrated approach composed of five different methodologies, in the municipality of Kristianstad, Sweden. The aim of this article is to highlight both the importance and complexities of integrated approaches in coastal management. The experiences documented through the case of Kristianstad highlight the benefits of combining hazard estimations and participatory approaches to understand risk, impacts of coastal hazards, and potential solutions; and the challenges of mainstreaming risk assessment approaches across contexts. We argue that integrated approaches can be effective for triggering local dialogue, disseminating information, and achieve greater ownership and local acceptance of Disaster Risk Reduction measures, but that involvement of local actors requires careful design and planning. The experiences documented when pilot-testing RISC-KITS integrated approach argue for increased co-production of knowledge in coastal management projects.	disaster risk reduction; integrated approaches; vulnerability assessment; coastal risk assessment framework; multi-criteria assessment; sweden
391898	Coastal cities' adaptation to climate change	The economically, socially, and culturally most developed areas worldwide are located predominantly along the coastlines. Socioeconomic development has accumulated large populations and high value assets in coastal cities while coastal cities have become prone to climate change effects. Sea level rise, tropical cyclones, rainstorms, floods, storm surges, high temperatures, and heat waves have posed new challenges to coastal city development. Domestic and foreign coastal cities such as Shanghai, Guangzhou, Tianjin, Xiamen, Hong Kong, New York, London, Tokyo, Sydney, Venice, Singapore, and Cape Town are analyzed on their current climate change adaptation techniques. Measures are compared and future challenges for adaptation are assessed. © 2014 by Koninklijke Brill nv, Leiden, The Netherlands. All rights reserved.	NA
9394	Ecosystem-Based Adaptation for Food Security in the AIMS SIDS: Integrating External and Local Knowledge	This paper critically reviews ecosystem-based adaptation (EbA) approaches for food security under climate change, specifically for the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) comprising the Africa, Indian Ocean, Mediterranean and South China Sea (AIMS) region. The focus is on integrating different knowledge forms. An analysis of current EbA approaches for food security is undertaken, alongside a review of methodologies for integrating local and external knowledge. Key gaps and actions for EbA for food security in the AIMS region, and potentially further afield, are identified. The gaps indicate the lack of coherence in AIMS SIDS approaching food security, in terms of policies and actions not reflecting the ecosystem-food-climate nexus, the lack of a regional framework despite similarities amongst the SIDS, and the infrequency with which knowledge integration occurs. To fill these gaps, suggested actions highlight knowledge identification and combination, learning from others and from history, using local champions, and regularly monitoring and evaluating progress. These actions will push forward the EbA agenda through improved development and use of knowledge, better connections amongst the AIMS SIDS and farther afield, and more local-national-regional collaboration.	aims region; climate change; ecosystem; food security; local knowledge; small island developing states
6389	Economic behavior of fishers under climate-related uncertainty: Results from field experiments in Mexico and Colombia	This paper presents the results of economic experiments run among fishermen from the Mexican and Colombian Pacific. The experimental design aims at studying behavior under uncertainty concerning the possible effects of climate change on fisheries. We find that subjects' risk-aversion diminishes the level of catches and changes fishing practices (e.g. adopting marine reserves), provided that fishermen have ex ante information on possible climatic consequences. Furthermore, social preferences (e.g. for cooperation and reciprocity) also play an important role regarding extraction from common-pool resources. Other factors, such as income, gender and religion are also found to have some influence. These results have important implications for adaptation actions and the management of coastal fisheries. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	experimental economics; uncertainty; risk-aversion; climate change; cooperation and reciprocity; coastal fisheries
50293	GULF COAST MARINE LABORATORIES PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE	I spent my nearly 50-year career in marine science working at marine laboratories, most of that as a chief executive officer. So, it is appropriate that my reflections are about marine laboratories, rather than my own science. After relating my career course, I turn my attention to the history and development of marine laboratories along the U.S. coast of the Gulf of Mexico (GOM). Surprisingly, the region's first laboratory was actually constructed in 1903 at Cameron, LA, but operated less than a decade before closing. It was not until after World War II that the university-affiliated marine laboratories of today developed in each of the states and have contributed greatly to our understanding of coastal environments. They now have impressive facilities and operate the region's GOM research fleet, participate in the global advancement of science, educate and inform a broad spectrum of society, and are at the front line in debates over important public policies. Marine laboratories must strive to achieve excellence in scientific discovery, integration, application and life-long education, while overcoming challenges due to relative isolation from the universities or agencies with which they are affiliated and their vulnerability to coastal climatic events and changes. The GOM marine laboratories have an unprecedented opportunity to contribute to the rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems and recovery of their living resources. They also have a responsibility to assist coastal citizens transition the energy economy to limit climate change and adapt to the changes that do occur. More than ever, their science must be relevant, credible, salient and useful.	gulf of mexico; history; research fleet; ecosystem restoration; climate change
