id	title	abstract	keywords
162771	Virtual Coast Guard: An Open and Crowdsourced GIS Portal for Stewardship of India's Coast	India's coastline is under tremendous pressure. The current processes of development are becoming a threat to the ecology and livelihoods housed on the coast. If left unchecked, there will not be much of a coast left for our future generations. GIS provides tremendous opportunities to map spatial information for better decision-making. Government agencies generate maps, but they are localized and inaccessible, preventing an actual assessment of the damage that is already happening to our coast. The Coastal Area Mapping Project (CAMP) envisions creating a collaborative GIS platform using open source technologies. CAMP's vision is to use Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) for collaboration and cocreation and collective problem solving. CAMP foresees a vision for India's coastline where power is equalized among all constituencies (Government, corporations, media, communities, civil societies, etc.), by capturing the big picture and patterns, thus enabling the creation of strategies for stewardship of India's coastline for human wellbeing, coastal protection and sustainable coastal development.	NA
13878	Closing the Gap Between Researchers and Policymakers: Lessons from the History of Fisheries Management in the United States	Increases in sea surface temperature have led to distributional changes in many commercially exploited fish species. These changes have already led to conflict over mackerel fisheries, arising from demand for fair resource apportionment and desire to manage the fishery sustainably. In order to develop adaptable management strategies for complex ocean fishery systems, policymakers and researchers must move beyond a reactive producer-consumer relationship to develop proactive, supportive collaborations. The history of U.S. national fisheries management is presented as an example of this transition. Building cooperative capacity over the last two centuries has lead to a more systematic understanding of the oceans, and has led to success in reducing the number of overfished stocks. Similar development of cooperation between policymakers and researchers on an international scale may be the surest way to develop management strategies adaptable enough to withstand challenges posed by future climate change.	policy and politics; climate change; science/policy interactions; adaptive management; fish and aquatic systems
6669	Adaptive design as an answer to climate uncertainty	With the closure of the Dutch estuary ``South Sea{''} in 1932, a large artificial lake was created of which the water level is controlled by discharge sluices. Due to a gradually rising sea level, the discharge capacity of these facilities has decreased and the control of the lake levels is insufficient. Future projections of sea level rise and rainfall patterns are highly uncertain, coupled to the uncertainties of climate change. Options for expanding discharge capacity were studied, using lifecycle costing. It could be shown that adaptive solutions are the most robust in view of the uncertain projections of the future. Lifecycle costing in the presented form turned out to be a suitable way of supporting public decision-making on large infrastructure.	NA
9096	Operationalising Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Adapting to Sea Level Rise through Coastal Law: Where Does India Stand?	With an overwhelming majority of India's population living on the coast and depending on coastal resources for their sustenance and livelihood, sustainable coastal development is of critical importance to this country. India is also susceptible to the impacts of climate change and sea level rise. This article reviews India's attempts to manage its long coastline and coastal resources through the instrumentality of law. The salient features of its first coastal law of 1991 and the subsequent draft law of 2008, culminating with a new law adopted in 2011, are analyzed in detail. Specifically, this article examines how these laws provide for integrated coastal zone management, the primary methodology to attain sustainable coastal development, and how they further adaptation to sea level rise. The article argues that, as it stands, India's coastal law is ineffective to further these two objectives.	india; integrated coastal zone management; climate change; sea level rise; sustainable development; adaptation; nuclear power plants
232751	Reviewing the nature and pitfalls of multilateral adaptation finance for small island developing states	Small island developing states (SIDS) are recognized as being among the most vulnerable countries to climate change-many are highly exposed and sensitive to, inter alia, sea-level rise and increased intensity storms, yet often lack the human and financial resources needed for successful and/or effective adaptation. The international community has responded to SIDS' precarious situation, in part, by establishing a suite of multilateral funding mechanisms to help finance costly adaptation projects and programs. However, to date, there has been a mismatch between the level of international climate finance mobilized and the scale of adaptation that is needed in SIDS. This paper reviews the relevant academic and policy literatures to provide a system-wide diagnosis of the institutional and conceptual problems plaguing adaptation-specific multilateral climate funds, which are often addressed in isolation. We show that, following the establishment of the Global Environment Facility, many multilateral climate funds have been rife with administrative issues, creating barriers to access for particularly vulnerable countries. The funding that SIDS do receive is often insufficient to meet the costs of adaptation, and funding allocations are demonstrably skewed amongst SIDS and amongst types of adaptation projects and programs funded. In concluding, we propose reorienting multilateral adaptation finance towards resilience as a means of improving the governance of international adaptation finance and increasing access for SIDS and other particularly vulnerable countries.	adaptation; climate change; finance; governance; small island developing states (sids)
649	Theorizing climate change, (im)mobility and socio-ecological systems resilience in low-elevation coastal zones	This paper draws on recent theory and empirical research to explore how mobility is and might be employed by populations vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. It examines case studies in Bangladesh and Kiribati to illustrate the implications of differential processes of change, types of mobility, challenges and responses in low-elevation coastal zones. Throughout, a household-level analysis yields a complex picture of how (im)mobility interacts with vulnerability to environmental change. A resilience approach is subsequently adopted to argue that an understanding of socio-ecological systems offers a useful means of apprehending and exploring the complexity inherent in the climate change-mobility nexus.	south asia; climate change; livelihoods; adaptation; small islands
185163	Moderating our Expectations on Livelihoods in ICM: Experiences from Thailand, Nicaragua, and Tanzania	Livelihood development is often integrated into coastal management projects as a strategy for increasing project success. This strategy is taken because it is known that livelihood development increases the interest, support, and trust of the community in coastal and marine ecosystem conservation. The research described in this article explores what factors contribute to enterprise success and whether livelihood interventions lead to other benefits in addition to employment and income generation. A learning portfolio approach was used that draws on the field sites and projects supported by the USAID-funded Sustainable Coastal Communities and Ecosystem (SUCCESS) Program. Our experience suggests that key factors that influence livelihood enterprise success (revenue generation) include: the type of enterprise supported, the form of extension support provided, community context, and enterprise ownership (i.e., group or individual). The results also confirm the idea that there are important benefits from livelihood development not related to profitability, which can improve the impact of coastal management programs. We found benefits that include increased resilience, community and gender empowerment, stronger social ties, and improved coordination with local government.	enterprise development; integrated coastal management; micro-credit; nicaragua; sustainable livelihoods; tanzania; thailand
10514	Analyzing coastal coupled infrastructure systems through multi-scale serious games in Languedoc, France	In the context of global change, the South of Gard coastal region in southern France is building up an adaptation plan in order to reduce vulnerability to several external drivers, including demographic growth, sea rise, and a new environmental directive from the European Union. However, adaptations which would reduce the vulnerability of some stakeholders might increase that of others. To explore transfers of vulnerability and their consequences with local stakeholders, we designed a serious game where players take the roles of sectoral planners in different places and on different scales of the territory. We organized a game session with 50 elected people and experts coming from various sectors. This experiment showed that adaptations on the local regional scale make it possible to cope temporarily with the pressures of global change by transferring these pressures to other sub-regions, other sectors, or even other scales. Analyzing the game session, we observed four categories of vulnerability transfers: transfers that were prevented by anticipation, transfers that were prevented by chance (non-purposely), transfers that were limited by a reaction (a posteriori), and transfers that simply occurred. Transfers prevented by anticipation required complex integration of local and sectoral adaptations. Urban growth linked to strategic retreat adaptations, which was identified as the major pressure, could be partly dealt with by trade-offs involving negotiations between several sectors in several places and at several scales.	social and ecological system; coupled infrastructure systems; role-playing game; companion modeling; global change; adaptations
50175	Restoration of the Mississippi Delta: Lessons from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita	Hurricanes Katrina and Rita showed the vulnerability of coastal communities and how human activities that caused deterioration of the Mississippi Deltaic Plain (MDP) exacerbated this vulnerability. The MDP formed by dynamic interactions between river and coast at various temporal and spatial scales, and human activity has reduced these interactions at all scales. Restoration efforts aim to re-establish this dynamic interaction, with emphasis on reconnecting the river to the deltaic plain. Science must guide MDP restoration, which will provide insights into delta restoration elsewhere and generally into coasts facing climate change in times of resource scarcity.	NA
92837	INTEGRATED COASTAL FISHERIES MANAGEMENT	There are two principal threats to sustainable coastal fisheries. The concern which has been evident in most parts of the world for many years is the existence of open access to fisheries which has led to over-capitalization, over-fishing of the resource and, often, conflict. Increasingly in recent years, however, a second threat has become apparent. This is the loss of fish habitat and deterioration of water quality brought about by environmental changes generated in other sectors. Integrated coastal fisheries management addresses these issues through a strategy in which the removal of open access plays the key role, supported by elements such as creation of awareness, local participation in management, training and research, and improved sectoral coordination and planning. It is noted that, very often, the amelioration of the second of the two principal threats may be dependent on the fishery sector resolving the first.	NA
247083	The order is rapidly fadin' Responding to the impact of climate change on property with reference to the Aotearoa New Zealand context	Purpose This paper reviews the relationship between property and the changing coastal environment. It looks at issues around the mismatch between the protection of private property rights implicit in our property law, which assumes stability and permanence, and the protection of public rights and environmental values expected of coastal land, which is increasingly vulnerable to climate change hazard. Issues of retreat from the coast, perhaps with compensation and incentives, will need to be dealt with. Design/methodology/approach New Zealand situations and examples are used to illustrate the conflicts between secure property rights and changing coastal land. Findings The effects of climate change on coastal land will be significant. This era of environmental degradation and climate change will require a significant re-ordering of property law. Changes in coastal land will require property owners to adapt their use and occupation of the coastal zone, if necessary by retreating. Similarly, local authorities will need to be proactive in planning for coastal land changes. Social implications - Property will need to be re-imagined to support public and environmental goals for the coast. Originality/value This paper extends other discussions about how property law and the protection of property rights is a barrier to implementing climate change responses.	planning law; property law; compensation; climate change; coast; managed retreat
13700	Combining backcasting and adaptive management for climate adaptation in coastal regions: A methodology and a South African case study	Developing adaptation strategies for deltaic and coastal regions is a major challenge, due to future uncertainties of climate change and complexity of the social-ecological systems to be managed. This paper investigates how desirable futures or normative scenarios approaches, in particular backcasting, can be used to develop more robust climate strategies in coastal regions. The paper develops a methodology in which participatory backcasting and adaptive management are combined, and its applicability is demonstrated for the Breede-Overberg coastal region in South Africa where a catchment management strategy has been developed. It is concluded that the methodology offers an adequate framework for developing and implementing long-term climate adaptation strategies and policies, including a transition management scheme for intermediate assessments. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	NA
1714	A catchment partnership approach to delivering natural flood management in the Evenlode, UK	Adapting to climate change and its impacts on water resources is one of the major challenges facing the UK. In the first scheme of its kind in the Thames basin, this paper describes how natural flood management (NFM) is being piloted in the Littlestock Brook tributary of the Evenlode catchment. This 5-year scheme (2016-2021) explores the delivery mechanisms and assesses the effectiveness of NFM measures to reduce flood risk in Milton-under-Wychwood, improve water quality and create habitat. It has secured 640 pound 000 from Environment Agency programmes, the Thames Regional Flood and Coastal Committee, other partners and landowners. In 2018, ten field corner bunds were created with a combined storage capacity of 26 000 m(3). Woody dams in the brook divert high flows into these flood storage areas. Critical to success is integrated delivery through the Evenlode Catchment Partnership and engagement of the local community. Catchment partnerships deliver a range of environmental, social and economic benefits, and directly support many of the ambitions under the government's 25-Year Environment Plan and the Water Framework Directive. Collaborative working with Thames Water, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, consultants and academics has enabled the project to utilise existing delivery mechanisms and to model and monitor the effectiveness of NFM.	environment; floods \& floodworks; sustainability
7474	Achieving Disaster Resilience through the Sri Lankan Early Warning system: Good practises of Disaster Risk Reduction and Management	A case study report of the good practices of the Sri Lankan Early Warning System (EWS) was prepared for the ANDROID Disaster Resilience Network funded by the EU Lifelong Learning Programme. The objective was to highlight good practices, identify gaps and useful recommendations (within an up-to-date and comprehensive context) to achieve disaster resilient governance. The EWS components; Infrastructure, Risk Knowledge (i.e. Hazard, Vulnerability and Risk Assessment), Preparedness and Early Warning Dissemination, Disaster Response and Coordination were scrutinised. These components were compared against the exemplary structure of a people-centred EWS to assess its efficacy in achieving disaster resilience. Since the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami was the first contemporary large-scale disaster faced by Sri Lanka, it lacked the legislative framework and institutional capacity to respond and only thereafter the integration of Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) was observed. The importance of training was demonstrated within risk knowledge, preparedness and early warning dissemination, and disaster response and coordination. Thereby training is considered crucial in achieving a progressive, people-centred EWS. However it can be consolidated through joint resource utilisation (particularly personnel) between organisations and creating a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) certification system. There has been considerable progress in integrating DRR into development at all levels, which is a key measure in achieving disaster resilience. It was notably observed in achieving disaster resilient development, climate change adaptation and DRR was integrated despite a general tendency to be polarised in other areas. Despite some existing projects there is a need for greater government and private sector engagement in ecosystem-based DRR. Finally to achieve a disaster resilient Sri Lankan EWS, risk transfer measures require further evaluation. The emergence of some disaster risk financing and insurance is observed but issues, such as assuring applicability to a local context and scientific, evidence-based underpinning, need to be addressed. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B. V.	disaster risk reduction; disaster resilience; preparedness; early warning dissemination; governance
1239	Important Aspects of Evacuation Planning for the Coastal Communities in Sri Lanka	Sri Lanka is a tropical island in the Indian Ocean which has suffered from various disasters in the recent past. Flood events which occurred in the last three consecutive years clearly shows that the country is affected from climate change. During a disaster event, evacuation of vulnerable and affected communities is necessary to reduce the number of deaths. In the Sri Lankan perspective, most of the recent disasters severely damaged the coastal belt of the country. This study was carried out to evaluate the different aspects of evacuation planning with respect to the coastal districts in Sri Lanka. Some of the aspects considered are early warning dissemination, evacuation routes, shelters, drills and training and the effects of having a family vehicle, disabled people, neighbours and domestic animals. During this study, an online questionnaire survey was distributed after carrying out an in-depth literature survey to gather data. The lack of trust in authorities who disseminate early warnings and limited knowledge on evacuation routes and shelters in the residential areas are some of the key issues which were identified during this study. Furthermore, it was identified that social media plays a pivotal role in disseminating the early warnings in the urban areas. Increasing the number of awareness campaigns related to evacuation and using social media wisely are some of the recommendations made, which will build the coastal community resilience via proactive measures.	evacuation planning; resilience; early warning
5900	Addressing Long-Term Operational Risk Management in Port Docks under Climate Change Scenarios-A Spanish Case Study	Ports are strategic hubs of the logistic chain and are likely to be exposed to natural hazard events. Variation of metocean agents derived from climate change, such as sea level rise or changes in the magnitude, frequency, duration, and direction of storms, can modify the infrastructural and operational vulnerability of port areas and activities, demanding the development of adaptation or mitigation strategies. In this context, the present paper is aimed to propose a downscaling methodology for addressing local effects at port scale. In addition, based on previously identifying and defining the Areas of Operational Interest (AOIs) inside ports, an approach towards the evaluation of operational vulnerability is offered. The whole process is applied, as a practical case, to the Port of Gijon (Spain) for different General Circulation Models (GCMs), concentration scenarios, and time horizons. The results highlight, in line with other publications, that inter-model differences are, so far, more significant than intra-model differences from dissimilar time horizons or concentration scenarios.	climate change; operational risk; operational downtime; vulnerability analysis; downscaling; areas of operational interest; aois
8366	Problems of cross-scale coastal management in Scandinavia	Transdisciplinary knowledge integration and cross-scale management remain challenges in coastal management after several decades of research and experience with integrated and sustainable coastal management. The aim of this paper is to identify requirements for knowledge integration and development of multi-scale approaches to coastal management through reviewing and re-analysing three Swedish-European research projects: the SUCOZOMA project about sustainable coastal zone management, the FRAP project about conflicts between coastal fishery and species protection, and the SECOA project about solutions to contrasts in coastal metropolitan areas. The strategy of adaptive governance is considered in the light of its ability to assess knowledge requirements for sustainable resource management under conditions of climate change.	coastal management; integrated coastal zone management; iczm; sweden; social-ecological systems; adaptive governance
235325	Adaptation processes of peripheral coastal tourism communities in Quebec, Canada	The research aims to explore how climate change and the discourses about adaptation to climate change are altering the spatial development of the tourism industry in coastal destinations in the periphery. Firstly, we will review the consequences of climate change for the coastal environment and tourism. Then, we will present the role of space in the adaption of the tourism industry. The reproduction of the coastal tourism space in the context of adaptation to climate change will be illustrated by two case studies in Eastern Quebec in Canada - the communities of Tadoussac on the north shore of the St-Lawrence River and of Notre-Dame-du-Portage on the south shore.	climate change adaptation; tourism space; production of space; quebec; saint-lawrence river
13797	Climate change adaptation in coastal cities of developing countries: characterizing types of vulnerability and adaptation options	Facing the increasingly adverse impacts of climate change, many coastal cities in developing and least-developed countries have shaped their climate adaptation plan. This study aims to unpack the state-of-the-art municipal adaptation planning in developing countries. The paper seeks to understand the types of vulnerability and explore planned adaptation options through a content analysis of adaptation planning documents in 45 selected coastal cities in developing countries. The result shows the complexity of vulnerabilities that are not only climate change impacts, but more importantly, the socio-economic sensitivity, the insufficient infrastructure system, and limited adaptive capacity. Adaptation responses, correspondingly, address primarily current vulnerabilities rather than future climate change impacts. Local climate change adaptation in developing countries, therefore, cannot separate from socio-economic development and capacity enhancement. A coordination mechanism for inter-policy is necessary to manage the trade-offs between multiple priorities.	climate change; coastal cities; developing countries; vulnerabilities; adaptation options
5658	Introduction: Autochthonous human adaptation to biodiversity change in the Anthropocene	Rapid biodiversity change that is already occurring across the globe is accelerating, with major and often negative consequences for human well-being. Biodiversity change is partly driven by climate change, but it has many other interacting drivers that are also driving human adaptation, including invasive species, land-use change, pollution and overexploitation. Humans are adapting to changes in well-being that are related with these biodiversity drivers and other forces and pressures. Adaptation, in turn, has feedbacks both for biodiversity change and human well-being; however, to date, these processes have received little science or policy attention. This Special Issue introduces human adaptation to biodiversity change as a science-policy issue. Research on human adaptation to biodiversity change requires new methods and tools as well as conceptual evolution, as social-ecological systems and environmental change adaptation approaches must be reconsidered when they are applied to different processes and contexts-where biodiversity change drivers are highly significant, where people are responding principally to changes in species, species communities and related ecosystem processes, and where adaptation entails changes in the management of biodiversity and related resource use regimes. The research was carried out in different marine and terrestrial environments across the globe. All of the studies consider adaptation among highly biodiversity-reliant populations, including Indigenous Peoples in the Americas and Europe, farmers in Asia and marine resource users in Europe and the Pacific. The concept of autochthonous adaptation is introduced to specifically address adaptation to environmental change in local systems, which also considers that local adaptation is conditioned by multi-scalar influences and occurs in synergy or conflict with adaptations of other non-local agents and actors who enable or constrain autochthonous adaptation options.	autochthonous adaptation; biodiversity change; case studies; conceptual frameworks
12419	Coastal shrimp farming in Thailand: Searching for Sustainability	Shrimp farming in Thailand provides a fascinating example of how the global trade in agricultural commodities can produce rapid transformations in land use and resource allocation within coastal regions of tropical developing nations. These transformations can have profound implications for the long-term integrity of coastal ecosystems, and represent a significant challenge to government agencies attempting to manage land and water resources. Thailand's shrimp-farming industry has suffered numerous regional `boom and bust' production cycles that created considerable environmental damage in rural communities. At a national scale, these events were largely masked, however, by a shifting cultivation strategy and local adaptations in husbandry techniques. This chapter outlines the need to upgrade planning systems, improve water supply infrastructure and enhance extension training services within coastal communities to address ongoing systemic environmental management problems within the Thai shrimp-farming industry.	NA
7458	Vernacular Design Based on Sustainable Disaster's Mitigation Communication and Education Strategy	Indonesia is located between three active tectonic plates, which are prone to natural disasters such as earthquake, volcanic eruption, and also giant tidal wave-tsunami. Adequate infrastructure plays an important role in disaster mitigation, yet without good public awareness, the mitigation process won't be succeeded. The absence of awareness can lead to infrastructure mistreatment. Several reports on lack of understanding or misinterpretation of disaster mitigation especially from rural and coastal communities need to be solved, especially from communication aspects. This is an interdisciplinary study on disaster mitigation communication design and education strategy from visual communication design studies paradigm. This paper depicts research results which applying vernacular design base to elaborate sustainable mitigation communication and education strategy on various visual media and social campaigns. This paper also describes several design approaches which may becomes way to elaborate sustainable awareness and understanding on disaster mitigation among rural and coastal communities in Indonesia.	vernacular design; disaster mitigation; mitigation communication; visual communication design
232522	Prioritising well-being and resilience to `build back better': insights from a Dominican small-scale fishing community	Climate change is increasing the severity of extreme weather events, particularly hurricanes, presenting a significant challenge to Caribbean coastal communities. In the aftermath of a major disaster, government interventions typically prioritise infrastructure, assets, and the economy through rebuilding roads, reviving economic sectors, and providing financial compensation. This is driven by a focus on macro-level quantitative indicators rather than by local, multidimensional subjective and relational factors, closer to lived experiences and livelihoods. Using frameworks outlining social well-being and agency, this paper explores strategies used by a fisheries-dependent community in Dominica to recover from Hurricane Maria in 2017 and pursue well-being. The findings highlight the importance of multidimensional well-being, particularly relational and subjective dimensions, including existing social networks, and personal relationships critical for recovery after Maria. Furthermore, the paper demonstrates how recovery initiatives that concentrate solely on material well-being, such as employment, can undermine agency in the capacity of a community to recover and build resilience.	agency; caribbean; disaster risk management; environmental hazards; small-scale fisheries; social well-being
69328	The role of participatory governance and community-based management in integrated coastal and ocean management in Canada	There is compelling evidence that participatory governance is crucial for contending with complex problems of managing for multiple values and outcomes to achieve ecological sustainability and economic development. Canada's Oceans Act, and federal oceans policy provide a strong basis for the participatory governance and community-based management of coastal and large ocean resources. The implementation of the Oceans Act and oceans policy has resulted in some steps toward participatory governance but has not adequately provided the mechanisms for a strong role for communities in integrated coastal and ocean management (ICOM). In order to strengthen and develop community participation in ICOM, nine initiatives are recommended: (1) shifting paradigms, (2) overcoming `turf protection,' (3) ensuring compatibility of goals, (4) ensuring sufficiency of information, (5) dealing with internal community stratification, (6) creating cross-scale linkages, (7) creating a participatory policy environment, (8) building community capacity, and (9) monitoring and assessment of local-level initiatives.	capacity-building; community-based management; cross-scale linkages; integrated management; oceans policy; participatory governance
351	Towards a climate change adaptation strategy for national parks: Adaptive management pathways under dynamic risk	Government seeks to manage public protected areas, such as national parks, to conserve high-quality wildlife habitats and provide essential ecosystems services at risk of permanent damage or extinction from climate change. The complexity of the organizational structure required to deliver this breadth of functions, coupled to uncertainty surrounding the onset and severity of climate impacts at local scale, impedes planning for climate change. This paper describes the development of an adaptation planning tool and its application in a pilot planning process for the National Parks and Wildlife Service, the agency of the New South Wales (NSW) Government (Australia) responsible for management of national parks and public conservation reserves. The process involved close engagement in knowledge co-production in participatory workshops, and employed two complementary techniques, adaptive pathways and risk assessment. It successfully elicited tacit knowledge of agency staff about the range of interventions available, the need for management practices to evolve, and of discontinuities in management pathways in a dynamic risk environment. Findings suggest that management effort across the NSW reserve system will increase as climate risk rises. Consequently, government will need to respond to increased demand for resources, for better targeting of those resources, and for management innovation in how resources are deployed to support adaptation that is both anticipatory and transformative.	climate change; national parks; adaptation, risk management, planning
249611	Risk screening assessment for ranking historic coastal landfills by pollution risk	Globally there are significant numbers of historic landfills, and in England alone there are over 1200 in low-lying coastal areas. Approximately one-third of these historic coastal landfills are near designated ecological sites, and without intervention, 10\% are expected to start eroding within 40 years. Indeed, some sites are already eroding and releasing waste, and erosion is likely to become more common with the anticipated effects of climate change. Mitigating the pollution risk from all historic coastal landfills under threat of erosion would be prohibitively expensive; consequently, it is necessary to understand which sites pose the greatest pollution risk to prioritise management resources. This paper proposes a new risk screening assessment that can support coastal managers in identifying which historic coastal landfills pose the greatest pollution risk at a national scale for minimal cost using existing datasets. The proposed method determines an overall risk index for each site by considering the risk of pollution from eroding historic coastal landfills in two stages: the first stage assesses the risk of waste being released (waste release index), and the second assesses the risk to various receptors (pollution index). The highest risk sites can then be prioritised for further investigation or remediation.	estuarine and coastal management; risk assessment; historic coastal landfills; coastal vulnerability index; contaminated land management; flood defence management
3	Community awareness towards coastal hazard and adaptation strategies in Pahang coast of Malaysia	The National Hydraulic Research Institute of Malaysia reported that by 2050, the east coast of the country will suffer increasing substantial rainfall, sea-level rise, and recurrent flooding. The effects of coastal threats, vulnerability, and adaptation measures are increasingly becoming more critical for coastal communities than before. Hence, this study aims to measure the levels of community awareness and adaptation strategies to coastal hazards and to analyze the differences of awareness on the basis of socioeconomic factors. The research is based on a household survey (n = 498), which is randomly conducted in 11 locations on the Pahang coast. Findings indicate that more than half of household heads have high levels of awareness regarding coastal hazard impacts, such as human casualties; losses of mangroves, coastal forests, aquatic, wildlife, and livestock resources; and damage to residential properties, coastal infrastructures, agriculture, and economic activities. An independent sample T-test and one-way ANOVA demonstrate household heads who are elderly (x = 2.57, p < 0.01); experienced (x = 2.48, p < 0.01); educated (x = 2.65, p < 0.01); healthy (x = 2.42, p < 0.01); and with an improved socioeconomic status (x = 2.42, p < 0.05) having high levels of awareness. This study suggests that education and awareness-raising, including capacity building, play essential roles in the further understanding and decision making of coastal hazards and adaptation strategies. Moreover, the principal component analysis model identifies that structural and non-structural measures and community-based adaptation measures are essential to protect the coast. The study can contribute to the knowledge of community awareness and adaptation to coastal hazard literature that can be implemented on a global scale.	awareness; adaptation; coastal hazards; coastal communities; malaysia
2157	Exploring coastal development scenarios for Zanzibar: A local microcosm inspired Delphi survey	Tropical coastal systems are undergoing rapid change, which impacts people and natural resources, and that requires innovative governance processes to be turned into an opportunity for sustainable management. Focusing on Unguja, the main island of the Zanzibar archipelago in Tanzania, this study explores the current state of the island's coastal systems, as well as probable and desirable scenarios for the future. Based on a two round iterative Delphi survey aimed at coastal science \& management experts, research priorities are identified, and explorative scenarios are proposed. The findings indicate that demographic pressure is expected to have a high impact, and that competing coastal land use claims balancing between tourism infrastructure development and local fisheries-related land are to be expected. Sustainable alternative livelihood strategies are however expected to be part of the solution, for a resilient coastal system, if inclusive governance and management strategies are put in place, e.g. regarding access to coastal resources. This study combines the predictive and normative components of explorative scenarios and its approach and findings can be inspiring in the whole Western Indian Ocean region, beyond the Zanzibar case study.	coastal management; sustainability assessment; scenarios; delphi; zanzibar
388	Do country-owned adaptation interventions reflect local level priorities? Application of a framings approach	It is claimed that country ownership enables equitable adaption by ensuring that adaptation interventions address priorities of local level vulnerable populations. This paper uses a framings approach to understand whether country owned interventions are aligned with local level adaptation needs. Three framing - the rights and responsibility, capabilities and recognition framings-are used to identify principles of justice reflected in adaptation interventions and compares them to those expressed by local level communities expected to benefit from these interventions. A case study of a Least Developed Countries Fund-funded and Global Environment Facility-administered coastal adaptation project in Tanzania is used. The analysis finds differences between framings by the project and local communities. The project portrays a rights and responsibilities framing with emphasis on government-led technocratic adaptation. Local level communities prioritize the capabilities framing, where local natural resource management institutions are considered necessary for mediating between resource access by resource-dependent households and resource conservation for coastal adaptation. The findings suggest that country ownership may not necessarily be equitable as local level adaptation priorities can fail to be reflected in country owned interventions.	equity; country-ownership; rights and responsibilities; recognition; capabilities; climate risk management
7812	Managed retreat of coastal communities: understanding responses to projected sea level rise	Managed retreat - the relocation of homes and infrastructure under threat from coastal flooding - is one of the few policy options available for coastal communities facing long-term risks from accelerated sea level rise. At present, little is known about how the Australian public perceives policy options to mitigate sea level rise risks. This paper explores a range of different decision-making criteria used to assess a managed retreat scheme. A metatheoretical social functionalist framework is used to make sense of personal concerns elicited from an online survey asking respondents to consider a managed retreat scheme. The framework proposes that people can act intuitively as scientists, economists, politicians, prosecutors and theologians, when considering a complex topic such as managed retreat policy. The research found that the survey respondents are more likely to consider the topic of managed retreat from multiple functional perspectives than from a single functional perspective. The type of social functionalist frameworks that people used to assess the Conditional Occupancy Rights scheme was found to be influenced by their perceptions of sea level rise risk. The findings have implications for public debates about the long-term risks of sea level rise and for engaging with the community about managed retreat policy options.	social functionalist theory; sea level rise; managed retreat; coastal management; climate adaptation
